i'm going to talk to you today about 30 years of engineering history.
this is a very big thing to summarize in 18 minutes.
it's a complicated topic, so we're going to head right into a complex place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i was from new jersey, i was six years old, and i was living there with my father in a town called levittgenston, and this was a bedroom.
at the corner of my room, there was a bathroom that i shared with my sister.
and between my room and the shower, there was a balcony that was looking at the living room.
and that's where everybody would gather to watch tv, so every time i went from my room to the bathroom, everybody would see me, and every time i bathed and pulled out my own antennae, everybody would see me.
i looked like this.
i was weird, i didn't feel safe, so i hated that feeling.
i hated that walk, that balcony, i hated that room, that home.
and that's architecture.
it's gone.
that feeling, that feeling, that's the power of architecture, because architecture is not mathematics and division. it's the charged sensory intersections that we feel in the places we operate.
and it's no wonder that we're feeling that way, because by the environmental protection agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
ninety percent of our time is surrounded by engineering.
this is a huge thing.
which means that engineering determines who we are in ways we never knew.
that makes us something naive, and we can predict what we want is very easily.
that means that when i show you a building like this, i know what you're going to think about: you're going to think "power" and "stability" and "democracy."
and i know you're thinking about that because it's based on a building that was created 2500 cents ago by the greeks.
that's the trick.
this is the incentive that engineers use to create that emotional connection with the forms that we build buildings.
it's a predictable emotional connection, and we've been using it for a very, very long time.
we used it 200 years ago to build the pakistan.
we used it in the 19th century to build artifacts.
in the 20th century, in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young, stable, solid, confused soldiers, facing the ocean to take away the risks.
this is very useful, because building things is horrifying.
it's expensive, it takes a long time, and it's too complicated.
and those who build these things -- developers and governments -- are naturally afraid of innovation, and they'd better use only those forms that they know you're going to respond to.
so we end up having buildings like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is the ligon public library that was finished in 2004 in my hometown, and it has a dome and that circular thing, with a column, a red wedding, and you can guess what levitton is trying to say through this building: children, property values and history.
but it doesn't have much similarities with what libraries are doing today.
that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, was finished building another library. it looked like this.
in seattle.
this book is about how we're used to media in digital time.
they form a kind of public immune to the city, a place of collection, reading and sharing and viewing.
so how is it possible that in the same year, in the same country, two buildings, both written, are totally different
and the answer is that engineering works in the principle of clock drugs.
on the first side we find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing the direction of building new technologies, studying new symbols, new solutions to how we live today.
that we pay and push and push until we all nail.
we wear black clothes, we depression, you think we're loving, we die in our gut because ultimately we have no other option.
we have to go to the other side to engage again those symbols that we know you love.
we do this, and you become happy, we feel like a concrete, and we start testing again, and we revert the scorpion back and backwards and backwards, and we've done this for the last 300 years, and certainly over the last 30 years.
30 years ago, we just came out of the '70s.
the engineers then were busy testing something called monster architecture.
it's very concrete.
you can guess.
small windows, with nonhuman measures.
this is very difficult.
coming closer to the 1980s, we started sharing these symbols.
so we push the scorpion to the other side.
we take those shapes that we know you love and we update them.
we add neon, we add paris, we use new materials.
you open them.
we can't satisfy you enough.
we take english loops and we turn them into skyscrapers, they can be a little glass of middle ages.
as the sizes got bigger, i became more colorful and severe.
the pygmies are the size of the column.
the zodiac has grown into the size of buildings.
it was crazy.
but it's the 1980s, so it's great.
we all meet in commercial communities and we all move to live in suburbs, and there, in suburbs, we can create geometric imagination.
and these options can be medium or french or italian.
maybe they have infinite bread.
this is the post-radio idea.
this is the idea that's going on around symbols.
they're easy, cheap, because instead of building places, we make memories of places.
because i know, and i know you all know, this is not a tuscany.
it's actually ohio.
so engineers are worried, so we start taking the clock back to the other side.
in the late '80s and early' 90s, we started to test what we call the demolition movement.
we started to throw historical symbols away, and we used new design technologies that were supported by the computer, and we came up with a bunch of new structures, from wreckage to shapes.
these are academic and hard things, and they're not completely loved. we're doing a lot.
the punishment usually swollen by itself to return to the other side.
and then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is the ggohenheim belluba of his frank gehry engineer.
and this building has radically changed the relationship of the world with engineering.
paul gould borr said that bellaba was one of those superstar signs when critics and academics were uniting completely on some building.
new york times considered this building as a miracle.
the tourism doubled in beijing 2500 percent after we finished this building.
all of a sudden, everybody wanted one of these buildings: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, cleveland, springs.
everyone wanted a similar building, and my instinct became a jeep running around.
he's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how is it possible for these forms -- universities and traditional -- how could they be all over the world
this happened because the media was so successful in telling us quickly that these shapes mean culture and tourism.
so we created an emotional response to the direction of these shapes.
all the mayors of a city in the world, as well as the mayor of the world.
so every mayor knows that if his city has forms like this, they have culture and tourism.
this phenomenon has happened with the beginning of the new millennium of some of other other superstars.
i got with her reef to pixelskind, and what happened with this few elite engineers with the beginning of the new millennium, was to start to impact the whole field of engineering, where digital media started to increase the speed that we consume.
think about how you consume engineering.
from 1,000 years ago, you had to walk towards the next village to see a building.
transports speeds: you can sail in a ship, take a plane, be tourists.
technology is increasing: you can see it in the newspaper, or on tv, in the end, we're all photographers, and the spirit of the building has been edited out of the site.
engineering is everywhere now, and that means that the speed of communication has finally come to terms with the fastness of engineering.
because engineering is moving pretty quickly.
think about designing a long time ago.
it's the building that takes a long time, three or four years, and then it's going to design an engineer or eight or another building before it knows whether the building was designed four years ago or not.
that there's no feedback loop in engineering.
so you end up with buildings like this.
not only is brutal architecture and only two years, it's a 20-year-old movement.
twenty years ago, we've been out there for buildings like this because we didn't know how much you hated.
it won't happen again, i think, because we live on the edge of one of the great engineering revolutions since the invention of concrete, iron, elevator, and what has been with it from a media revolution.
so my theory is that when the media applys to the dance of an hour, it starts moving faster and faster, until it gets more semi-specific, and that really sets the difference between creativity and symbols, between engineers, between you and the general public.
we can now create emotionally charged symbols of a moment in a completely new way.
let me show you how this works by a project that i just recently finished.
we've been brought to replace this building that has demolished.
this is a city center called the "the pinez" in fire island in new york.
they're a tourist cluster.
we proposed a building that was about courage, it was different from all the buildings that the population was coming back, we were scared and we were scared and the people were scared, and we created a series of realistic perceptions of settings and put them on facebook and put them on instagrams, and we let people start doing what they're doing: sharing them, taking them
but that meant that before the building was finished two years ago, the building was already part of the community, and when the settings seemed exactly identical to the final product, there would be no surprise.
this was a building that was already part of the community, and then in the first summer, when people started to ramp up and share pictures of building on social media, it was no longer just a building but it became an advertising, because this is not just a building image, it's a picture of you that builds.
and when you use it to tell your story, it becomes part of your narrative, and what you're doing is shortening the way on our collective memory, and creating these emotional symbols for us to understand them.
that means we don't need greeks anymore to fill us with what we need to think about engineering.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media has not only changed our relationship to each other, but also the relationship between us and buildings.
think for a moment in the bookstore there in lisigon.
if that building were going to be built today, the first thing they would do was go online and look for new libraries.
they'll be surprised at examples of testing, about creativity, and think more deeply about what the library is.
that's the ammunition.
that's the one that they can take for the mayor of livestock, and the ligon, and let's say, there's not a single definition of what the library is today.
and let's be part of this.
highly experimentation gives them freedom to test them.
everything is different now.
the engineers no longer use these vague objects and drawings that are so important, and they never returned to this abandoned public, this customer who never would accept anything they've never seen before.
engineers listen to you, and you're not afraid of engineering.
that means that the dance of the clock and backwards from one way to another, from one movement to another, no longer any sense.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions to the problems our society faces.
this is the end of the history of engineering, which means that tomorrow's building will look very different than the buildings of today.
which means that the public spaces in the old city of aristotelia can be unique and designed in ways that a new city works.
what that means is that a player in brooklyn can be a slave there, not to be a historical tradition of the red wave we think of as being a player.
that means that robots will build our buildings, because we're finally ready to understand the shapes that they're going to produce.
it also means that buildings will be mandated with nature's air, not the other way around.
that means that the garage in miami bach in florida, it can be a place for sports and louuga and you can also marry there late at night.
that means that three engineers dream of swimming in the east river in new york city, collecting about half a million dollars from people who have collected their cause, no longer have one customer.
that means that no small-scale building can be created, like this small, ringing-sharp wing, is as powerful as the animals that are designed to monitor.
this means that no one should be beautiful to be liked, like this ugly building in spain, where the engineers drilled a hole, filled it with a straw, and they emptied the concrete around it, and when the concrete dried, they invited someone to come and clean the straw so that this little hidden room remains in the room, and they &
and that became one of the most magical places to see spanish.
because it doesn't matter if a cow is our daughter or a robot from a building.
it doesn't matter how we build, what matters is what we build.
the engineers already know how to build green buildings that are smarter and easier to use.
we've just been waiting for all of you to like it.
and finally, we're never on the other side.
find an engineer, use an engineer, work with us to design better buildings, better cities, and a better world, because standards are high.
not reverse our society, but identify its features through the most basic space: local libraries, houses in which we raise our children, and the path that they take from the bedroom to the bathroom.
thank you.
this is my niece steel.
she's just a year old and she starts walking.
and she walks that great way, like all the children in their first year, where they thinner.
it's absolutely wonderful.
and one of her favorite things about this is she's staring herself in the mirror.
she certainly loves her reflection on the mirror.
she laughs, sweats, kisses and kisses herself those large wet trails.
it's a beautiful thing.
and it seems that all her friends do this, and my mother told me that i was also doing this, and that invited me to think when did i stop doing it
when did it suddenly become dislocated to love our appearance
because obviously we don't like our appearance.
every month, 10,000 people are searching for google "am i ugly"
this is fi, 13 years old and living in denver.
and like any teenager, you want to be loving and accepted.
it's a sunday night.
she's ready for school next week.
she's a little scared and she's a disaster because even though her mother tells her all the time, she's beautiful every day in school, somebody tells her she's ugly.
and because of the difference between her mother and what her peers say at school don't know who she is.
so imagine a video of herself, and you put it on youtube, and you ask people, and you ask them to write a comment, "am i beautiful or ugly"
ok, so far, i got 13,000 comments.
some of the comments are disgusting, and they don't even look at it.
this is a teenage girl with a normal health appearance that receives responses like this in the most sensitive emotional times of her life.
thousands of people post videos like this, most of them teenage girls are communicating this way.
but what did he get them to do that
well teenagers these days rarely be alone.
they're under pressure to be online all the time, talk, send messages and like them.
they commented and published, and it never ended. we'd never had this connection in this constant, instant, instantaneous, young way.
and, as one mother told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
simply, there's no privacy.
and the social pressures that go along this are tough.
this is an environment of continuous interconnection for our children to train themselves according to how much they're getting, and the kind of comments they're getting.
there is no separation between life on the web and life outside.
it's hard to recognize what's real and what's false.
and it's also very hard to distinguish between what's original and what's digitally manipulated.
what's the important event versus everyday events
where are they looking for inspiration
let's see what images are fills of the news of girls these days.
the carriers of fashion are very remote, and they're making platforms.
so, as a result of the re-mapping wave features, we've become seeing the derivatives of the migraines.
it's about the space between the two thighs.
and these derivatives encourage the loss of appetite.
these trends have a very materialistic view of women in the public culture.
it's not hard to find out what girls compare themselves to.
but boys are not immune to this either.
we see them as broad dementia and hypergiene muscles as sports and singers, but what's the problem with all this
we want our children to be created as mastered individuals, but with a culture that is obsessed with shape, we raise them.
by spending time and effort caring about their appearance as their social and their physical skills.
they have a classroom that starts to deteriorate.
six of 10 girls choose not to do a task to think they're not so beautiful.
we're not talking about secondary activities, we're not talking about basic activities, we're going to be mature individuals, as individuals in society, about 25 percent, about 100 of all teenagers.
they pull out the conversations in the classroom, they don't share because they don't want to.
i called them up to one in five out of school when they're not satisfied, let's talk about tests when you think you don't look good.
escept, if you think you're not a spiel.
your degree is less than yours.
those who don't worry about this have been fixed in finland, the united states and china, regardless of what your real weight is.
and to explain more, we're talking about.
your belief is not your shape, not your real shape.
the lack of trust in the appearance, the lower level of the school, the health, when the teenage confidence is lower, it exercises less, it exercises less, it doesn't eat fruit and vegetables.
and it does unhealthy diet.
it leads to eating disorders and it decreases.
it makes it more affected by the opinions of others and exposing to depression, and all of these things make them more livable and drug abuse.
and unhealthy food and cosmetics and engaging in sexual exercises and hurt themselves.
the pursuit of the perfect body is a hospital.
our governments cost billions of dollars every year and we don't stop them, women who think they're toxic.
no matter whether they do, they actually miss out on the job more to interview a job on the day that you don't feel confident about her appearance.
let's think about the impact of this on our economy.
and what would we do if we could overcome this, we would have access to the benefits of each and every one of us
but how do we do that
talking alone is about problems.
it's not enough to solve it.
if we want to make a difference, we need to do something.
there are three ways to create change, the first of all, the awareness of trust in the form, and we have to teach teenagers.
how to overcome the stressfulness of the appearance is perfectly perfect, and how they build their self-esteem.
it's good to have programs that mean that now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come in with the results, the recession is shockingly shocking when i knew that a lot of these good programs are good.
it increases so unintended, and that's why we have to make sure our kids don't receive programs that only leave positive effects.
it's always left an effect that has shown that the best vessels are addressing basic aspects.
the first is the impact of family, friends, second relationships, the impact of media and celebrities, and then dealing with harassments and peers, how we compete and compare ourselves to others based on our forms, and talking about appearance, and another self-esteem and care about.
these six core points for anyone who's seriously started an effective educational education of trust.
education and awareness are very important, but this problem requires each of us who are initiative to be a good role model for women and girls that are close to it.
and challenge the situation that women are showing in our societies.
we shouldn't judge leadership efficiency by slavery or chest prices or to predict the success of olympic play, because it doesn't run necks for its beauty.
we need to see people with their actions.
we need to care about the kinds of images that we spread and the comments that we write in social networks.
we have to resume people to the effort they did and the business they did, not in their forms.
let me ask you when was the last time you ever had a mirror
and finally, we have to work together as communities and governments and businesses to change this culture to raise our children to appreciate their self-esteem, respect, discourage, and belong.
we have to get people out there as the potential of the superheroes in the world.
we shine them at the lights and when we do that, then we can make change.
we want to create a world where our children's children feel free to be the best they can be, where they don't care what they want to be, or achieve what they want in life.
think about what this is going to mean for anyone in your life.
who's had a thought
is it your wife
your sister
your daughter
his son, jokes
your friend, or maybe the woman who is removed from you in two dimensions now.
what would it mean for her if she moved from that criticized voice inside of her, which worries her to make her cord or her thighs or her belly or her feet smaller or her lungs
what would it mean if it got over it and it went off because of that
today, our culture is in the picture that's so unequal.
but let's show our kids the truth.
let's show them that their appearance is just one part of their identity and that we love them for their selves, their actions, and the feeling that they feel.
let's integrate self-worth into our curriculum.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to others.
let's work together as communities of roots to governments to make the happy kids today, making changemakers trust themselves tomorrow.
let's do that.
on november 5, 1990, a man named mr.ira entered a hotel in manhattan and killed the rabbi kahn, a jewish leader.
it wasn't that we were battered at the ground, but when he was spending a sin on a lighter issue, he was planning on how many other men attacked on tens of sites in new york city, including spending and jewish temples and the headquarters of the united nations.
luckily, these diagrams were frustrated by a client in the federal investigation.
unfortunately, in 1993, the world trade center was not frustrated.
their edit was finally convicted to be involved in the process.
mr. fate is my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, in pennsylvania, 1983, an egyptian engineer, and who was a lovely american, was a primary grade teacher, and together they could do everything they could to make me live a happy childhood.
my seven year-old lives started to change our family's lives.
when my father showed me on the side of islam a few people, including the majority of muslims, they wouldn't see it.
my own experience says that when people take time to communicate with each other, it doesn't take effort to realize that in all, we all yearn for the same things in life.
but in every religion, in every society, you will find a few people who are passionately attached to their beliefs that they feel they have to use all the means to get the other people to live as they do.
a few months before he was arrested, sat down and explained to me that during the weekends, some of his friends were going to do the protection work of long island to do the goals.
and he told me that i was going to spend the next morning.
we got to the field of protection calibration, which was, without the knowledge of our group, watching by the fbi.
when my role to shoot, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explain to me how i should target the target 30 yards away.
that day, another bullet that was shot by the little orange light that was on the roof and what was surprising to everybody, especially to me, that the whole goal was bursting out.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and he said to arabic, "my son is a father."
that's the shell of that lion.
and apparently they had bursted a laugh on this comment, but it took a few years to understand exactly what they thought was funny about it.
they thought they saw in me the same destruction that my father was able to do.
these guys were ultimately convicted of a mission of putting a small truck that was loaded with 1,500 pounds of explosives on the ground floor of a parking lot, a global trade center parking lot, causing the explosion of six people to kill and pull over more than 1,000 people.
these guys were my role models.
these were people who called "amoe," which means "uncle."
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, not stabilizing that during my childhood, not really given me a chance to identify many friends.
every time i start feeling relieved to someone, that time when we have to collect our bags to move to the next city.
and being the new student in the classroom, i've often been vulnerable.
i was hiding my identity about my classmates in the classroom to avoid my target, but it turned out that, being a quiet kid and a new cement in the classroom, was making a good, ridiculous ammunition.
so often, i would spend my day at home looking at books and watching tv or playing video games.
and for those reasons, i was missing social skills, at least as appreciative, and as i grew up in a fan's office, i couldn't be prepared to face the real world.
i grew up judging people based on an arbitrary scale, like race or religion.
so what opened my eyes
one of my first experiments that challenged my thinking was during the presidential elections of the year 2000.
during my assistant program in college i was a member of the national council of young people in philadelphia.
my own group of young violence, and being a victim of most of my life, this was a subject that i was particularly excited about.
the members of the group were from all different life scenes.
one day, at the end of the council, i discovered that one of the children i believed was jewish.
now, it took me several days to show these details on the surface, and i realized there was no natural hostility among us.
i had no jewish friend before, and i felt proud that i could have crossed a obstacle that i'd been pregnant with all my life to believe that it's impossible to overcome.
a major transformation point happened when i found a summer job at bush gardens, which is a entertainment garden.
there, i met people of various beliefs and cultures, and it turns out that that experience was essential in the evolution of my personality.
for most of my life, i've been told that homosexuality is a sin, and therefore, all gay people have a negative effect.
and i happened to have the opportunity to work with gay actors in a show there, and then i soon discovered that some of them were kind of cute, and the least judged people.
being upsetting when i was a child creating an innate kind of compassion with other people, and it seems unnatural to me that people had ever treated nice people in any other way that i didn't like to treat.
and thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a kid with real life experience and deal with people.
i don't know what it means to be sexually gay, but i know what it means to be judged about something outside of my will.
then came "the daily shuh."
so john stewart was forcing me, every night i had to be intellectually honest with myself about my thumb and helped me realize that it was nothing to do with race or religion or or or or or or sexuality in his own personal lives.
sometimes it was my father's character for me when i was yesterday of needing parents.
the inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and as a jewish comedian, he's done a lot more positive to see the world than my father did extremist, i don't have a loss for me.
one day, i was talking to my mother about how my worldview has started to change, and she said something that i would always carry around in my heart as long as i live.
she looked into the eye tired of having a brain-spoken-free blood cockroach in his life, and she said, "i've been tired of hatting people."
in that moment, i realized how much negative energy that this hat requires inside of you.
zach of abraham is not my real name.
i changed it when my family decided to cut it into my parents and start a new life.
so why would i go public and put myself in a potentially dangerous situation
well, it's simple.
i do this hopefully that there might be somebody who's an effort to use violence might listen to my story and realize that there's a better way, that if you're vulnerable to that violence, and an untoxic ideology, it's not tired.
instead, i chose to use my experience to fight against terrorism, against prejudice.
i do this for the victims of terrorism and their loved ones, and pain and the right loss that the terrorism has forced them to live.
for the victims of terrorism, i'm going to speak out loud against these new works and the religion of what my father did.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not in religion or in race of one, and that the son doesn't have to follow my father's line.
i'm not my father.
thank you. thank you, all of you. thank you all. thank you very much.
now, you have a film that's shown inside your head.
it's a wonderful multi-tracking movie.
and it's showing a 3d view and the technology of the sound that you're seeing and hearing right now, but that's just the beginning.
your film has smell, taste, touch.
it has a sense of your body, your pain, your hunger and your brutality.
it has emotions, from anger and happiness.
and it's got memories, like watching your childhood being being run by you.
and it has this continuous, neural, steady commentary on your conscious thinking.
and at the heart of this film you're testing it directly.
this film is your stream of consciousness, the experience of mind and world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental facts of human existence.
each of us is conscious.
everyone has their own internal film, you and you are.
there's nothing we know a lot about in a direct way.
at least, i know about my consciousness in a straight way.
i can't be sure you're conscious.
and consciousness also makes life worth living.
if we're not conscious, nothing in our lives would be meaningful or valuable.
but at the same time, consciousness is one of the most mysterious phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these inner films
why aren't we just robots processing all these inputs, producing all these outputs, without testing this inner film at all
right now, no one has answers to these questions.
i'm going to suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is objective in its nature.
a consciousness is inherently self-conscious.
so there can be no science of consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century, this was the dominant view.
psychologists studied behavioral behavioral, and neuroscientists studied intrinsic, and no one even mentioned consciousness.
until 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little scientific research on consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, this all started to change.
neurologists like francis crick and physicists like roger benzer said it was time for science to study consciousness.
and ever since then, there's been a real explosion, a scientific research boom.
and this was a great job. it was special.
but he had some major restrictions so far.
the hub of consciousness has been in recent years looking for mutual relationships, interconnected relationships between certain areas of the brain and certain states of consciousness.
we've seen some of the work from nancy kwiser's and the wonderful work that i did a few minutes ago.
now we understand a lot better, for example, the kinds of brain regions that go with conscious experience to see faces or to feel pain or feel happiness.
but that's the science of interrelated relationships.
it's not explanation.
we know that these areas of the brain are in particular kinds of conscious experiences, but we don't know why they go along with them.
i'd like to illustrate this by saying that this kind of work of neuroscience answeres some of the questions that we want to answer about consciousness, questions about what some brain regions do and what they relate to.
but in a way, these are the easy problems.
and not criticizing neuroscientists.
there isn't really a lot of easy in the problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't take the real mystery in the nomination of this: why should all the physical processing of the brain have to be aware at all
why is there such an inner self-defining film
now, we have nothing to explain.
you might say, let's just give neuroscience a few years.
and it will turn to another emergent phenomenon like traffic congestion, like hurricane, like life, and we will find a solution to it.
the classic emergence cases are all cases of emergent behavior, how traffic congestion works, how hurricane works, how living organism is breeding and adapting and contracting, all questions about object work.
you can apply that to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human brain function as emergent phenomena: how to walk, how to talk, how to play chess, all of these questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, the questions become about behavior among easy problems.
when it comes to the hard problem, the question becomes, why is all this behavior accompanying a self-expressed experience
and here, the standard model of evolution, and even the standard model of neuroscience, really doesn't have much to say.
now, i'm a scientific person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, and for a long time, i've been scratched down the wall looking for a theory of consciousness with the fertile physics that might work.
but i finally made it to the conclusion that it didn't work only for systematic reasons.
and that's a long story, but the basic idea is that what you get from the purely redundant explanations in physical terms, and in terms of the brain, are stories of how the system works; it's built, it's dynamic, it's a behavior that comes out, and it's great for solving easy problems how to
this is something completely new, and this is always another question.
so i think we're sort of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're familiar with that, but the physics explains chemistry, and chemistry is broken by biology, and biology is losing parts of psychology.
but consciousness doesn't seem to fit in with this image.
on the one hand, it's forbid that we're conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to contain it in our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness now is a kind of anomaly, and it's a sort of thing we need to integrate into our vision of the world, but we don't see how it is yet.
in the face of an anomaly like this, there might be some need for radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that look first crazy before we can deal with consciousness in science.
now, there are a few pages of what these crazy ideas might be.
my friend dan dennett, who's here today, has one.
his crazy idea is that there is no problem of consciousness.
the whole idea of inner film involves some kind of illusion or confusion.
in fact, all we have to do is explain the objective functions, the brain behaviors, and then we have explained everything that needs to be explained.
well, i say, i hope more power.
this is the kind of radical ideas that we need to explore if you want to have a purely reductionistic theory of consciousness based on the brain.
at the same time, for me and for many other people, this opinion is very close to denying a gun's gun to simply be satisfied.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
in the remaining time, i want to explore two crazy ideas that i think may have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is the basis.
sometimes physicists take some aspects of the universe as basic: space, time, mass.
and they impose basic laws control, like gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and laws are not profitable on any fundamental level.
instead, it's taken as a mythology, and that's where we build the world.
now sometimes, the list is comprised.
in the 19th century, maxwell found that you cannot explain electromagnetic phenomena in terms of the current principles of space, time and mass and newton's laws have made fundamental laws of electromagnetism and assume electrical charge as a fundamental element that these laws control.
i think that's the situation we're in with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in the present light of the space, time and mass and charge, then, from the door of reason, we need to expand the list.
the natural thing to do is to assume the self-awareness as a fundamental, fundamental building block of nature.
it doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens up the way science is applied to it.
what we need then is to study the basic laws of consciousness, the laws that associate consciousness with other basic principles: space, time, mass, physical processes.
physicians sometimes say we want basic laws so simple that they can write on the front part of the t-shirt.
well i think something like this is the state of where we are in terms of consciousness.
we want basic rules so simple that we can write them down on the front part of the t-shirt.
we don't know what those laws are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness can be global.
every system can have some degrees of consciousness.
sometimes this view is called "pipespox," "papnos," "refer to public," "" ppc, "" refer to mind, "every conscious system, not just humans, dogs, fries, fries, but even microbes, and sob
even the photon has a certain degree of consciousness.
it's not that the photons are intelligent or they think.
and it's not that the photons are stimulating him with anxiety because he thinks, "unfortunately, i'm always moving close to the speed of light.
i could never slow down until i threw the flowers. "
no, it's not like that.
but the idea is that photons may have some element of raw self-expression, some primitive presentations of consciousness.
now, this might sound a little bit tempting to you.
i mean, why would anyone think of this crazy thing
some of the motivations come from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is essential, such as space and time and mass, then we would naturally assume it might be universal as well, as they are.
it's worth remembering that even though the idea seems intuitive to us, it's less intuitive to people than different cultures, where the human brain is more connected to nature.
the deeper motivation comes from the idea that perhaps the most simple and powerful way to find the basic laws that connect consciousness to physical processing is to connect consciousness to information.
wherever there is information processing, there is consciousness.
treating complex information, as in humans, means complex consciousness.
and processing simple information means a little awareness.
and what's really interesting is that in the last few years, the neuroscientist julie tunon took this kind of theory and developed it accurately with a mathematical theory.
it has a mathematical measure of integration called the pi, and it measures the amount of information integrated within the system.
and fiy supposedly corresponds to consciousness.
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of integrated information, and a high degree of fi, and a huge amount of consciousness.
in the mouse, there's a medium for the integration of information, still matter, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when we go down to the maggots, the microbes, the particles, they have an fiay.
it also costs about how much information is integrated, but it's still on top of zero.
in tony's theory, there will still be zero-sum degrees.
in fact, he suggests a fundamental law of consciousness: the higher the fi, the more consciousness.
now, i don't know if this theory is true, but it's actually what i think the leading theory now in consciousness, and it's been used to integrate a whole bunch of scientific data, and it has a beautiful property that it's actually very simple to write on the frontal part of a t-shirt.
the other and final motivation is that the general psychological trend can help us integrate consciousness into the physical world.
and, quite often, physicists and philosophers have noticed that physics is strangely abstract.
it describes the structure of reality using a set of equations, but it doesn't tell us about the reality that lies behind it.
as stephen hawking says, what puts the fire into the equations
well, by the opinion of psychological, you can leave the equations of physics as it is, but you can make them describe the flow of consciousness.
that's really what physics does eventually, it describes the flow of consciousness.
from this point of view, it's consciousness that puts fire in the equations.
by this point, consciousness doesn't glide outside the physical world as a kind of addition.
it's right there at the heart of the physical world.
this view of view, i think, has the potential to change our view of nature, and it may have some very serious social and moral consequences.
and some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i should not eat anything that had consciousness, so i had to be a vegetarian.
now, if you're supported to channel psychoanalysts, and take this view, it's going to become very hungry.
so i think when you think about it, it's going to change your views, whereas what matters for moral purposes and organic experiences, not really is awareness, but awareness and complexity.
it's natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.
what about the a.i. system in "haer," samantha
is it conscious
well, if you take the face of "psychological publicity," of course they have complex information processing and complex information, so it's very likely that the answer is yes, it's conscious.
if that's true, that raises serious ethical issues about the development of intelligent computer systems and ethics of closing it.
finally, you might be asking about the consciousness of the whole group, this planet.
do the country have its own consciousness
or at a more local level, is a complementary group like the ted audience, do we now have a collective consciousness of ted, an inner ted group of this group's interior ted group different from the internal movies of every part of our group
i don't know the answer to that question, but i think it's at least a question worth considering.
well, so this psychological perspective is a radical vision, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident at the first crazy idea, which is consciousness is essential, than i do in the second thought, which is generally considered.
i mean, the perspective raises a number of questions and a number of challenges, like how those small pieces of consciousness are added to the kind of complex consciousness that we know and love.
if we can answer those questions, we're going to be going to have the right path to seriousness theory.
and if we can't, this is perhaps the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we can't expect to solve it overnight.
but i think we'll find a solution for it eventually.
understanding consciousness is the true key, i think, to understand the universe and to understand ourselves, both.
we just need the idea of crazy right.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village in victoria.
my livestock was a normal nature.
i went to school and i hired my friends, and i struggled with my little sisters.
all of that was normal.
and when i was 15, one of the people in our local community called my family and wanted to nominate me for a community's accomplishment prize.
and my dad said, "that's really nice, but there's a single problem with that.
it's actually not done. "and they were right about it, you know.
i went to school, i got good grades, i had a little job after school in the salon of my mother to filter the hair, and i spent a lot of time watching "the vessel of vampire fans and doson ray."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but all of that was true.
i've never done anything outside the box.
i wasn't doing anything that could be considered a achievement if i pulled out of the equation.
years later, i was in the second school of melbourne high school, and 20 minutes before i started the semester of the year 11, he raised his hand and said, "miss, when do you start giving up your word"
and i said, "what word"
you know, i've been explaining to them about the famous law for 20 minutes.
and he said, "you know, your motivational speech.
you know, when people come into school, they usually say inspirational things.
"it's usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: it was this only boy experience with special needs as inspiration.
but not, for this boy, not his tail, i mean, that's true for many of us.
for many of us, disabled are not our teachers, our doctors, our nails.
we're not real people. we're there to inspire.
and i'm sitting on this stage looking like i'm in this wheelchair and you're probably kind of expecting me to inspire you. right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i fear that i will discourage your hopes very much.
i'm not here to inspire you.
i'm here to tell you that we were lied to disability.
yes, they have sold us lies that can say that disability is a bad thing.
it's a bad thing, and being in a deficit, it makes you extraordinary.
it's not bad. it doesn't make you extraordinary.
in the last few years, we've been able to deploy this lie even further through social media.
you've probably seen images like this: "the only deficit in life is bad behavior."
or this one: "excuse me that is unacceptable." actually.
or this one: "before you stop, try!"
these are just a bunch of examples, but there are a couple of them.
you know, you may have seen this little girl without hand drawing a picture of her mouth holding the pen in her mouth.
or you may have seen a child running on artificial legs from the carbon fiber.
and these pictures, there are many of them that are what we call pornography.
and i use the term deliberately, because it embody one group of people to benefit another group of people.
so in this case, we embodied disabilities for the use of uncertainty.
the purpose of these pictures is to inspire you, to motivate you to look at them and think, "well, whatever my life is bad, i can be worse.
i could have been that guy. "
but what if i was that person
i didn't count how many times it came close to strangers to tell me that they think i was courageous or inspiring. and this was before my work sort of emerged to advertise.
they were congratulating my ability to get up in the morning and remember my name.
and that confined us and turned us into the tool of these images, these images with special needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they're there to look at them and then you think that everything is not bad for you, to make everything that worries you in perspective.
and life as a disabled person is really, really hard.
it's true that we're getting past some slings.
but those things that we get beyond are not the ones you think.
it's not about our bodies.
i use the term "disabled" by the means, because i share with what's called the social model of disability, which tells us that we are more disabled by our society in which we live in our bodies or diagnoses.
and so, i've been in this body for a long time.
and i love it very much.
he does the things that he needed to do, and i learned to use it on the top of his capabilities as you did, and that's what the children in those photos did as well.
they're not doing anything extraordinary about nature.
they're using their bodies, according to the top of their performance.
so is it fair to insist and embody them in this way, to spread those images
when people say "you're an inspiration," they mean it as a compliment.
and i know why that's happening.
it's because of the lie, which they sold to us that disability makes you an extraordinary, special person.
in fact don't.
and i know what you're thinking.
you know, i'm here making fun of inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god, stella, don't you sometimes inspire you"
and the thing is, yes.
you learn from other disabled people all the time.
but i don't know that i'm more fortunate than they are.
i'm learning that it's a brilliant idea to use the grind to pick up the barber and pick up things that have fallen from you. i'm learning that amazing trick how to charge your phone battery through your wheelchair.
rituality!
we learn from each other, our forces and our contraceptives, not against our bodies and our diagnoses, but against a world that excites us and our bodies.
i really think that that fan-like lie for us about disability is a big darkness.
it makes life hard for us.
and that "the only disability in life is bad behavior," the reason that the nonsense is because it's not real, because of the social model of disability.
there are no smiles of a ladder that have converted it into an electric section of the chairs.
we smile on a tv screen will never make the textbook appear to be deaf people.
there's not enough standing in the middle of a library and radiation dialogue, and it's going to turn all of those books into braille.
it will never happen.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, it's the natural.
i want to live in a world where a 15-year-old girl in her room sees "the death penalty killer" not the case, but the truth of being seen as she's on the trailer.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations of disabled people where we just belong to our beds and remember our name in the morning.
i want to live in a world where we value the real achievements of disabled people, i want to live in a world where 11 kids at a high school of milton are not surprising at all because his teacher uses a chair.
disability doesn't make you extraordinary, thank you. it asks you what you think you know that makes you special.
what does the integrated reality and soccer have to do with sensory communication
and how fast does the flight of the unbroken anthrax fly
unfortunately, i'm not going to answer just one of these questions, so please try to give you your frustration.
when most people actually think about the "mintyrini rehearsal" movie, and tom cruise waves with his hands in the air, but the integrated reality is not a scientific imagination.
mixive reality is something that will happen in our lives, and it will happen because we have the tools to do that, and people have to realize that integrated reality will change our lives just as much as the internet and mobile phones have changed.
so how do we get to the compact reality
the first step is the step i'm wearing right now, google glass.
i'm sure google is familiar with many of you.
what you might not compose is that google glass is a device that allows you to see what i see.
you're going to be allowed to experience the feeling of being a professional athlete in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try and describe it to you.
i have to use words.
i have to create a framework for you guys to fill in your imaginations.
with google glass, we can put this under a helmet, and we can feel what the enemy looks like at the field at 100 miles an hour, the blood flows in your ears.
you can feel something like having a 250-pound man running around trying to cut your head all over.
and i was at the recipient end of this, and it's not a good feeling.
now, i have some footage to show you what google glass is like under a helmet to give you this feeling.
and unfortunately, not from my local football role-play, because i think emerging technology is what happens when you float a submarine, but we do what we can.
so, let's watch some videos.
chris kleo: come on.
ah, battling. awful.
so let's take a little closer.
a treasure
come on!
ca: so you can see, a little bit of a sense of what you're showing to a football field from the view of the person who's offered the stake.
now, you might have noticed that there are some people who are not there: the rest of the team.
we have a video about that from the university of washington.
popular player: come on, mice 54! mice 54!
"blue 8! blue 8! come on! come on!"
ah!
ca: again, this makes you a little closer to what it's like to be in the field, but that's not even as close to being in the local football role.
the encouraged people want to experience that.
they want to be in the playground.
they want to be their favorite players, and they've already talked to me through youtube, and through twitter, they said, "can that apply to the main player
on the back player
we want that experience. "
well, once we get that experience with jubo and google glass, how do you get the user
how do we step the next step
well, we step by a so-called oculus rift, and i'm sure many of you are familiar with it.
the october is described as one of the most real-time virtual reality devices ever invented, and that's not false false.
i'm going to show you that this is not a fake false claw on this video.
man: ah! ah!
no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh, my god! aaaaahah!
ca: so this is a man's experience on the death train scared his life.
how would you experience that encouraging experience when we show it to a video of adrienne peter, who goes through the line, paying a strong arm before he runs down the ground
how would you experience that encouraging experience when macy rack is in the playground and put the ball behind the network, or fredder sent the ball in wimpool
how would you experience that encouraging experience when it slips down a mountain at a speed of more than 70 miles an hour like an olympic hills
i think grown-ups can rise.
but that's not the integrated reality yet.
this is just virtual reality.
how do we turn into merged reality
we turn to reality where the co-optes and the directors and the director and the components look at this information that's degrading from people's desire to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our team better
how do we use this to win games "
because the difference always uses technology to win games.
they love to win. this gives them money.
so a brief history session about technology in the role of the local football.
in 1965, bolt kholt put a headquarters in order to get games faster.
they won the super bowl this year.
the other difference is they've got.
watch the game more people because it's getting more interesting.
it was faster.
in 1994, the local football role was put inside the main player's eve and then the defense later.
witnesses watch more people because they were faster.
it was more fun.
in 2023, imagine you're a player going back to the crowd and you've been shown to play your next to your face entirely on your transparent plastics that you're wearing right now.
no more worry about game forgetting.
no more worry about taking the game layer to remind you.
just get out and interact.
and the coaches want it very, very hard, because the stockpile tasks cause the game loss and the trainers hate the loss of the game.
the loss of games is your exposure to your classroom as an coach.
they don't want to.
but the integrated reality isn't just a better game-changing manual.
reaction reality is also a way to get all that data and use it in real time to improve how you play a game.
how could that be
well, a very simple setting is a camera in every corner of the stadium that's pointing down and gives you a vision of the top of everybody down there.
you also have information from helmet sensors and accelerators that are being done right now.
you take all that information, you make it flow to your players.
the good difference is it makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and the bad guys produce more information.
that determines the good difference.
from bad. now, your information technology department is as important as the kinect.
the mining of data is not for geeks anymore.
it could also be for cylinder players who know
what would that look like in the playground
well, imagine you're a major middle player.
i took the passing and i went back.
you explore the court searching for free recipes. suddenly, a flashlight on the left-hand side of the condoms, you learn that the invisible state is running towards you.
in the normal case, you wouldn't see it, but the integrated reality system teaches you to do it.
you step into the target.
another flash is alert to a free future.
the ball is passed, but you're hit in the moment of the passing.
the ball is remote from its trajectory.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on the rest of the recipient, he sees a patch of grass lighting up and he knows to edit.
he goes, he grabs the ball, he runs, and the earth touches.
the crowd goes really excited, and the encouraged people with it every step in the way, watching from every perspective.
now this is something that will create a huge distortion in the game.
it's going to make as many people watch, because people want this experiment.
the encouraged people want to be in the playground.
they want to be their favorite player.
the integrated reality would be part of sports, because it's so profitable.
but the question i'm going to ask you is this what we can use integrated reality
will we use it just to feed us, to enjoy our pleasure, to enjoy us as the familiar
because i think we can use the integrated reality of something more.
i'm sure we can use the integrated reality as a way to promote sensory communication through human beings themselves, through literally showing someone what they look like to take someone else's place.
we know what this technology is worth for mathematical courses.
it's worth getting the revenue of billions of dollars a year.
but what is the value of this technology to a teacher in a classroom trying to show a conference how harmful was it from a victim
what is the value of this technology for an ugandan or russian trying to show the world how it is to live under persecution
what is the value of this two writer, avelingovson or neil george tyson, trying to inspire a generation of children to think about space and science more than quarter reporting a year and a karajan
ladies and gentlemen, the integrated reality is coming.
the questions that we ask, the choices that we make, the challenges we face, as usual, are coming back to us.
thank you.
i recently retired from taking california roads after a 23-year service.
most of that time i spent my periods in the south mariner county, which includes the golden gate bridge.
the bridge is a creative building, known worldwide, viewed by sans francisco, the pacific, and its inspirational engineering.
unfortunately, it's also a attractive factor for suicide, where it's amongst the most unlikely parts of the world to try to suicide.
the gold gate bridge opened in 1937.
joseph strawberry, chairman of engineers, responsible for building the bridge, quote, "the bridge is practically anti-war.
long from the bridge is not practical and not possible. "
but then over 1,600 people jumped to get them to that bridge.
some believe that the passage between the towers of the bridge will lead them to another dimension, this bridge carries a romantic idea of falling from it will move from your pain and your sadness, and the water at the bottom is going to wash your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when the bridge uses suicide.
after free falling four or five seconds, the body hits the water fast it reaches 75 miles an hour.
that trauma is shattling bone, which then hacks through the biological organs.
many die of collision effect.
the people who don't die generally understand, they just float around with no strength, and then they drown.
i don't think those who chose this way of suicide realized how horrific death is that way.
that's the connection.
except for the bounce, there are 32 inches of parallel iron equivalent to the bridge.
this is where most of these people stand before they kill themselves.
and from my experience, i can tell you that if the person gets to that connection, and in your moment of life, it's very difficult to reclaim.
i took this public picture of my past while this young woman was talking to the officer, looking at her life.
and i can tell you very happy that we were able to successfully get it back to the fence today.
when i started working on a bridge, we weren't formal training coaches.
we were having these calls forum.
it wasn't just bad for those who tried to commit suicide, it was also for officers.
it's been a long way since then.
now, ancient officers and psychologists are training new c.o.s.
this is jason garbage.
i met jason on june 22 last year when i received a call from a case that was suspected to try to suicide sitting in the middle of the bridge.
i responded, and when i arrived, i watched jason talking to the bridge officer.
jason was 32 years old and he came on an airplane from new jersey.
in fact, it came here twice this time before from new jersey to try to suicide from over this bridge.
after about an hour talking to jason, he asked if we knew the story of pandora's box.
if you remember in the greek myth, zos created pandora, send it to the ground with a box, and then tell her, "never open the box."
but one day, it was curious that pandora, and he pushed it to open the box.
it took clay and sadness, and all sorts of evil against humans.
the only good in that box was hope.
then we asked jason, "what would happen if you opened the box and there was no hope"
i then shut up for a moment, money on his right, and then travel.
this young, smart guy from new jersey just dropped on suicide.
i talk to my parents that night, and i think as i'm talking to them, it doesn't seem like i've done all my work and i'm happy, because the next day, i call the ink of the family to come to me.
they asked jason to do that.
the nonviolent damage to suicide affects many people.
so i'm going to ask you this question: what are you going to do if one of your family members and who you love to commit suicide
what would you say
how would you know what you're going to say
in my experience, it's not just talking, it's listening.
i listen to understanding.
don't argue, don't blame, don't tell that person that you feel it, because you probably don't feel it.
only being there, it could be the point of the transformation they need.
if you feel like someone's thinking suicide, you're not afraid to confront them and ask them about it.
one way to ask this question is this: "other people in similar circumstances think about ending their lives; have you ever been drawn to these ideas"
the face of the person directly could save his life and be a turning point for him.
some of the other signals you can see: despair, believe that life is horrible and it will never improve; deficit, belief that there is nothing you can do about it; retreat from social life; lose the will of life.
i had this talk a few days ago, and after i got an email from a woman that i wanted to read her letter to you.
she lost her son in january 19 this year, and she sent me this post just a few days ago, and after she agreed and she wrote it i'll read you.
"hello, kevin. i expect you're at ted now.
there has to be a great experience.
i think i'm supposed to walk on the bridge at the weekend.
so i wanted to leave you a note.
i hope that people get my talk home and tell their friends who tell their friends, etc.
i'm still a little bit more sophisticated, but i'm already beginning to realize that these moments that mike will never come home.
mike was driving his car from palloma to san francisco to watch a san francisco 49 game with his father in 19 january.
but he didn't get there forever.
the petala's police called and reported that night he lost him.
and the next morning, a lecture came to my house and told me that a mike was standing next to a bridge.
and he noticed him jumping off the bridge at 1: 58 p.m. today.
thank you very much for the synonymity of those who were just the temporary, very weak for not having themselves.
who of us have not felt weakness without suffering from mental illness
it's very hard to eradicate.
let me get you into your own cave.
the golden gate bridge was supposed to be the express for our beautiful gulf, not the grave.
my wish is for you to stay this week, winky. "
i can't imagine her courage to go to the bridge and walk the way her son asked her that day, and her courage just continued to survive.
i want to introduce you to a man who i describe with hope and courage.
on march 11th, 2005, i had to call on the radio as likely to try to commit suicide on the sidewalk near the north tower.
my motorcycle was piloted on the pedestrian path and noticed that man, kevin bertha, standing on the sidewalk.
when he saw me, he immediately passed the pedestrian barrier, and he stood on that little tube that wrapped up on the tower.
and for the whole hour and a half, i listened to kevin talking about his depression and desperation.
how he decided that day he would come back from that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, i congratulated him.
"this is a new beginning, this is a new life."
but i asked him, "what was it that made you come back and give life and hope another chance"
you know what he said to me
he said, "you listened to me.
she let me speak, and she just listened to me. "
shortly after this, i got a letter from the mama kevin, and here's the message with me now, and i want to read it to you.
"dear mr. brigades, nothing will wipe out what happened on march 11, but one of the reasons why we stayed here today.
he was totally told how he was not working on the grass.
he was diagnosed with a mental illness that he's now systematically treated.
i adopted kevin when he was six months old, and i never knew his inherited traits, but thanks to him, we know that now.
how to reuse, he says.
we thank god for being.
the city and the city of you, firefly in pria. "
and at the bottom of the message, i wrote, "hos, when i visited san francisco public hospital that night, they wrote your name as the patient.
i swear that i wanted to be right and correct. "
today, how did he become a nostalgic father and an active members of society
he speaks frankly about the events of that day and about his depression in the hope that his story inspires others.
now, suicide is not just something i've faced in my work.
it's personal.
my grandfather is committing suicide by poisoning himself.
even though that verb is over his own pain, it has brought me a chance to recognize him.
that's what suicide does.
most of the commons, or people who think suicide, don't want to hurt someone else.
they just want to finish their own pain.
usually, it's achieved in three ways: sleep, drugs, alcohol or death.
in my work, i've been responding and participating in hundreds of calls trying to suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i was the direct official in were lost only two conditions, but they are many.
one of them was jason.
the other one was a guy who talked to him about an hour.
and as i was talking to him, i shake my hand three times.
at the last shake, he looked at me, and he said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
he stood afterwards.
hello, he's absolutely terrifying.
i want to tell you also, the vast majority of the people we meet on that bridge are not going to suicide.
also, those few who jumped from the bridge and lived and could talk about their experience, that one or two percent, most of them said that at that moment that the barrier they had made a mistake, they knew they had made a mistake and they wanted to live again.
what i tell people, the bridge doesn't just reach marin san francisco, but it connects people together.
that connection or the bridge that we're creating, is something that each of us should fight for.
charges are preventable.
there's help, there's hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different than you are, but, inside you, you know who you are, and that question burns in you: how do you become
i might be unique, but i'm not alone, i'm not alone at all.
so when i became a fashion contest, i finally felt that i was going to make the dream i'd always dreamed of since i was a child.
my external personality matches my reality inner reality.
for a lot of complicated reasons, i'll come to it later, when i look at this picture, then i felt like i did. i did. i did.
but in october, i realized that i was just at the beginning.
now, we've all been put inside boxes by our parents, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even our own bodies.
some people have the courage to break that down, not accept the boundaries of their skin or because of beliefs about them.
these people are a continuous threat to the status quo, which is not acceptable.
in my case, over the last nine years, some neighbors, some of my friends and colleagues and even my own agents, did not know about my history.
i think, vaguely, this is what's called breakfast.
and this is secret.
i was recorded at birth as a boy based on the outside shape of my genitals.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, walking around the house, i always put a shirt on my head.
my mother was asking me, "how do you wear that t-shirt on your head all the time"
i was saying, "mom, that's my hair, i'm a girl."
i knew how to define myself.
sex, it was still an absolute fact, unchanging reality, but we now know it's more resilient, more complex and mysterious.
because of my success, i didn't have the courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world deals with us, and that we hope to live freely.
every day, i'm very grateful that i'm a woman.
i have a mother and father and family who accept my reality as much as i would like to be.
many are not that fortunate.
there's usually old in asian culture celebrating the 200,000-dollar-dollar ambiguities.
there's a buddhist goddess.
there's the geometrical gods, the goddess of migration.
and that's when i was eight, i was celebrating the philippines with those secrets.
i was in the front of the theater, and i remember, that beautiful lady came out in front of me in particular, and i remember that moment something inside of me saying, "that's what i want to be.
so when i was 15, i still dress in a boyfriend, and i met a woman named t.l.
it was the head of an anonymous transfer agency.
that night she asked me, "how did you not join me with beauty contests"
she convinced me that if she wanted to do it, she would cost the recording of clothes and clothes, and that night, she won in swimming clothes and the virtue of long-haul dress and took the second center in the competition between 40 participants.
that moment changed my life.
and all of a sudden, i was introduced to the world's beautiful competition.
and it's not used to be the first career that is the queen of transgender beauty, but i dedicated the opportunity.
so from 15 years to 17 years i've even co-opt most of those competitions i've even co-opted a competition that was done in a qatar truck. literally or, again, a contest that was done next to a farming field, and when it rains, and in the philippines it had to take the competition inside one of the people &apos
i've been struggling with strangers, especially when we travel to distant distances in the philippines.
but, more importantly, i met some of my best friends from that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said that i was approved to demand entering an american access to the u.s., which meant i could move to america.
i've resisted that.
my mother told me, "mom, i'm enjoying it.
here with my friends, i love traveling, being a beautiful queen. "
but two weeks later, she called and she said, "you know, in america, you can change your name and your gender"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also told me to put an e-got in my name.
and she also had me when i had surgery in thailand in my 19th year.
it's amazing, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand they performed is better and more honest and higher than safety on those surgery.
then in the united states, you have to have surgery before you change the name and gender.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember when i wanted to get a driver's license in california, my name was genna and the sex marker was "female."
that was a moment of power.
for some people, personal identity is to drive or even get alcohol, for me, it was my license to live, to feel the borrower.
and suddenly, my fear of fear started to melt.
i felt that i could achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a opposition.
many are not luck.
i think it's because of this woman named alice nelson.
she's from new york, a young lady who lived her in a courageous reality, but hatred surrounds her life.
and for the majority of my community, this is the reality of our lives.
our suicide rate is 99 times higher than the general average.
on november 20, we organize a global stand for the remembrance of the day of transformers.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who have struggled and stood against injustice.
this is maracha pope and johnson, selia rural.
today, this particular moment, this is my real moment of life.
i could no longer live my truth for myself and my only alone.
i want to do better to help others live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, scribbled, even one day, there would be no need to stop the 20th of november.
my inner reality made me accept myself.
can you do that
thank you very much.
thank you very much, thank you very much. cg: jenn, quick question for you.
i wonder what you would say, especially for parents, but broadly, for friends, family, to anyone who finds themselves confronted with a child or someone who's faced or runs a sexy position that's been identified, what can you say to that person's family to help them become better, more emotional and more empathetic for them
jenn: of course, okay. first of all, i'm very lucky.
the support system, especially with my mother's support, and my family, itself, was very strong.
i remember every moment i would train a young, young woman, advise them, or sometimes when they call me and tell me that their parents don't accept that. i would pick up the phone and call my mother, "mom, can you talk to that woman"
and sometimes it works, and sometimes it doesn't work, but that's just the sex in our design, right
i mean, we've all been classified when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start that conversation that sometimes is special sex for us doesn't agree, and that's why there has to be a space that people can self-define, and that conversation we have to be with parents, and colleagues.
the transgender movement, still, is at the beginning, compared to how gay people began.
it's still a lot to do.
there has to be some understanding.
there can be a space for wonder and questions, and i hope you all be my allies.
kp: thank you very much, that was great. jc: thank you.
in many male and tribal societies, parents are usually defined as the percentage of their children, but i am one of the few who know to their daughter, and i am proud of this thing.
i started boredoming her campaign for education and her rights defendation in 2007, and when she was honored to her efforts in 2011, the national peace prize was becoming very popular in her country.
before all that, my daughter was her daughter, but now, i'm her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the history of humanity, the story of women is a dark story, inequality, violence and exploitation.
you see, in male societies, from the beginning, when a girl was born, her birth is not celebrated.
and they're not welcome, whether they're mother or father.
the neighbors come in, they're unwitting, they're not dying to the father.
mothers are not very comfortable for her daughter for a daughter.
when the first girl is born, the first daughter, mother is very sad.
when the second daughter is born, mother is hit, and when she's expected to be born, she's born a third girl, she feels guilty as a criminal.
it's not just mother who suffers, it's also the girl, the newborn, when she grows up, who suffers too.
at five years old, when she has to be at school, the girl stays at home while her brothers go to school.
and until 12 years old, in a way, lives a good life.
you can pass.
she can play with her friends on the streets, and move on the streets like a butter.
but when she becomes a teenager, when her age is entered, it's not going to leave the house without facilities.
they're imprisoned between four walls in their home.
she's not an individual at all.
it becomes what's called honor, brother and family, and if you go up to that honor, it might be killed.
and interestingly, the charter of chastrophes, not only affects the lives of the girl, but also affects the lives of the male in her family.
i know a family of seven sisters and one brothers, and that one brother, he ran into the bay countries, to make living for his seven sisters and his father, because he thought he would be professionals if he learned from his seven sisters and came out of the house to earn the living for themselves.
this brother, sacrificed his life and happy his sisters for what's called honor.
and there's another habit in male societies called in broadcast.
"good girl" should be very quiet and very humble and very simplistic.
that's the standard.
good girl must be very quiet.
it should be silent, and it should be that its father and her mother's decisions and the older ones are decided every year, even if she doesn't like it.
if she's married to a man who doesn't like him or a older man, she has to accept it, because she doesn't want to see her as "non-profit."
if you marry at a very young age, you have to accept that.
otherwise they'll call them unpopular.
and what happens at the end
in the words of poetry, they're married, they're placed in bed and then they're given more children and girls.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, she will learn the same as her daughter's day, and the same honor lesson for her children.
and this is an uniquely lengthy ring.
ladies and gentlemen, we put millions of women into the world, can change if we think about women and men differently, if women and men in male and tribal societies in developed countries, if they can break down some of the habits of family and community, if they can abolish the racial laws in their countries, which are notorious for the most part.
following brothers and sisters, when i was born malal, for the first time, believe me, i don't like newborn babies, i'd be honest with you, but when i looked in her eyes and believe me, i got a big honor.
and before she was born for a long time, i thought about her name, and i was fascinated with the mythical argument in afghanistan.
her name was malaya from mauan, my daughter named her.
a few days after i was born, my daughter was born -- my uncle came over -- and she was a coincidence -- he came home and brought the family tree, the yosavi family tree, looked at the tree, and i saw that she was tracking the history of 300 years of our ancestors.
but they were all men, and i picked up my pen, and i added a line of names, and i wrote "malala."
and when i grew up, it was four and a half years old, i recorded it at my school.
now, why do you think i've recorded it in a school
i have to mention this thing.
this may be a very implicit concept in canada, and in america, and in many developed countries, but in poor countries, in male and tribal communities, this thing is a very important event in the lives of a girl.
to go to school means to know what she is and her name is.
telling at school means it's entered the world of dreams and the world of money that it can discover its potential in its future life.
i have five sisters, none of them could go to school, but you'll be surprised. it was two weeks, when i was filling up the canadian falcon, when i was filling up the family section with demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason for that is that i've never seen in my life, they're all written in a document.
that was why i was going to appreciate my daughter.
my father couldn't give my sisters any girls, i thought i had to change it.
i have always appreciated the intelligence and the resilience that my daughter has.
i encouraged her to sit with me when my friends were coming.
i encouraged her to go with me to many meetings.
and all these good values, which i've been dumping into personality.
it wasn't just her. it was just bored.
i've gone through all these nice values for my school students from girls and boys alike.
learning is used as a tool for editing.
i learned my students, i learned from girls, not to teach to give up.
my students from the boys have taught me not to learn a lesson called fake honor.
my dear brothers and sisters, we were striving for extra rights for women and we were struggling to have more, more room for women in society.
but we have a new phenomenon.
it was a killer of human rights and particularly for women's rights.
it was called "demand."
it means completely excluded to women's participation in all political, economic, social activities.
hundreds of schools have blown up.
girls have prevented from going to school.
and the women forced them to dress up and they didn't let them go to the markets.
the musicians were broken, the girls and the singers were brought in to kill.
millions were suffering, but very few are the ones who talked, and it was horrible to be surrounded by people like those who were killing and fighting, and being talking about your rights.
it was really the most horrible thing.
at the age of 10, i stood bored, i stood up for the right to education.
i wrote a note for the bbc blog, i volunteered themselves for documentaries of the new york times that i spoke on every platform i could talk about.
her voice was more powerful.
douwy had spread her voice all over the world.
and that's why the taliban had so unable to carry, on october 9, 2012, shot on her head from nearby.
this was the day of the judgment of my family and me.
the world turned into a big black hole.
when my daughter was between living and dying, whispered into my wife's ear, "did i get what happened to my daughter and daughter"
but it was suddenly saying, "please don't hurt yourself.
i stood on the right side.
you've put your life at stake for the right, for peace, for education, your daughter was inspired by you and joined you.
both were on the right path and god would protect it. "
these few words meant so much to me, and i didn't ask this question again.
when malala was in the hospital, she was a very mother-in-law measurement and had a very severe headache because her face was cut, and i was seeing a shadow tight camping on my wife's face.
but my daughter didn't complain about it every day.
she was saying to us, "i'm doing fine with my wave smile and my nailing in my face.
i'll be fine, please don't worry. "
it was our enemy and our address, and it did our surveys.
my brothers and sisters, our flexibility taught us in the most extreme of punishments, i'm glad to share with you that even though it's a symbol of child's rights and women, it's like any 16-year-old girl.
she crying when she doesn't complete her homework.
you're looking at her brother, and i'm very happy about that.
people ask me, what is the special thing in my breeding that made it bold and very courageous that made it speak and be balanced
and i say, don't ask me what i did.
but ask me what i didn't do.
i didn't tell her wings. that's it.
thank you very much.
thank you. thank you very much. thank you.
i had a brain surgery 15 years ago, and since then, brain surgery has become passionate for me.
i'm an engineer.
first of all, let me just say i joined up on google earth at the gps dot and the science of the surgery that i'm going to talk about today is work before i joined gould, and i joined up with the goulder.
well, they say, there's a stigma there when you have a brain surgery.
are you still smart or not
and the answer is no, can you gain intelligence again
after my neurosurgeon, i removed and i had to deal with that.
it wasn't part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was a dead part of the matter that was casting into the brain center that controls hormones and main neurons.
right after the surgery, i had to decide how many drugs i had to take every day, and if i had to eat this material, i would die within hours.
every day, 15 years ago, every day i had to decide to build and mix of chemicals, and eat them, to survive.
you were having a lot of hard decisions.
but fortunately, i'm passionate about experimentation, and so, i decided to try and find the best doses because there was no clear reference to that and imperfect.
i started an experiment with mixes, and i was shocked to think that a simple change in the mix is happening dramatically with my own feelings, my own self-conflict behavior.
one of the exciting situations: for two months, i actually did a standardized, standardized, typical man who fits to a 20s and shocked how my ideas changed.
i was angry all the time, and i was thinking about sex continuously, and i'm also the smartest person ever, and i -- -- -- -- and of course, over the years i've met somewhat young, or god at a little bit less than that thinking.
it was my extreme case.
but, what was my son, i wasn't trying to be a pessimist.
i was actually trying to be, with some feeling of losing safety, solving a problem i'm facing in front of me, but that didn't work.
so i couldn't possibly have done that.
i've changed doses.
but, that experience, i think, has given me an appreciation for men and maybe it has been given me an understanding of men, and it has been better since then.
what i was trying to do is modify and balance hormones and neural transportation and like trying to reclaim the missing intelligence after the disease and surgery, my creative ideas and delivery ideas.
and i often think through pictures, and even then my medium was to get these mental images that i've used in prototypes, if you will, my ideas, the experience of different ideas of scale, and the unusual experience.
this kind of thinking isn't new.
so philosophers like huam and dyscarts and hippies saw that in a similar way.
they all thought the mental images and ideas were the same.
and there are those who contradict that are currently contradicting, and many debates about how the brain works, but for me it's simple: the images, the majority of us, are essential to creative and creatively thinking.
so a few years later, i've balance myself and i've got many living mental images with a great level of elegance and psychoanalyst for that.
and i'm actually working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to the computer screen faster
can you imagine, if you could, a filmmaker, she could not only use her imagination and bring it out in front of the world
or a musician who can make music out of a brain
these are amazing and medium for creators to signal their ideas at the speed of light.
and the truth is, despite the obstacles to do that, it enables perception of brain scanning systems.
so let me give you a reason why i think we're kind of close to this with your two-dimensional experience of two of the best neurotransmitters.
both of them used fmri and functional mri technology to photograph the brain, and this is a picture of the brain in advance of gorgonians and his colleagues at harvard university.
in the left-hand yield, a brain image shows a person looking at a picture.
the middle spigot shows the brain scan, the same person imagining and seeing the same image.
and the column on the right produces the integration of the middle and the left, and it shows that the difference is barely stable.
many people have been rehearsed, and many different images, with the same conclusion, are always the same.
the difference between seeing an image and imagining the same image, hardly there is no difference.
following, let me show you another experiment, which is offered by the jack gail, at ucla university.
they could dismantle the brainwaves and turn them into a visual field that could be realized.
and let me give you that.
in this experiment, people have been displayed hundreds of hours of video from a site while doing imaging brain activity to create a larger library of brain reactions to collect clusters of sections.
and then a new movie is shown that it contains new images, new people, different animals in it, and in the process it's being scanned again.
computer, using scan data, is just decoding that brain activity to show the actual imaginary image of people who are watching.
on the right-hand side, you see the computer analysis, and on the left-hand side, the real section.
the result is pretty amazing.
we're very close to doing that.
we just need better accuracy.
now remember when you see an image versus you imagine the same image, that gives the same brain the same scanner.
this was done using the best precision of brain scanning available right now, and the accuracy of those scanners has actually evolved thousands of times over the last few years.
so we need a thousand times more accuracy to have a deeper portrait.
how do we do that
there are a lot of techniques to that.
one is, break up the skull and get electrodes directly.
i'm not saying that.
there are a lot of imaging techniques that are being shown, some of them are self-reported, but depending on the current mri success, first of all, we need to ask: is this the end of the way that we're going to this technology
the conventional wisdom says that the module to get its most accuracy is the largest magnet, but only by the larger size of the magnet only provides some extra improvements of the precision, not the improvement of the amount of time that we want.
i'm going to give you an idea instead of a bigger magnet, to make a better magnet.
there are a lot of techniques that are introduced in nanotechnology when they're applied in magnetic industry that's produced a new set of magnets. and in that technology, we can get very detailed and obvious magnetic fields in all parts of the brain, and in using that, we can have three-dimensional combinations of the brain.
we can create more complex combinations with very simple modification, kind of like the sprinter of the breath.
so why is that important
many efforts in mri disposal in years have gone into the industry with bigger scale, very large sizes, right
and yet many improvements in the accuracy of photography actually come from creative and creative solutions to analyzing frequencies in fm waves and receptors in mri systems.
also, instead of a unified magnet, we use a specific magnet, and we also use the frequencies of the fm.
so, combine magnets with radio waves and processors that can dramatically increase the information that we can extract from one survey.
in addition, we can describe all of what we've learned about the structure of the brain and memory to get a thousand times what we need.
and using fmri, we can measure not only the broken blood flow, but the measure of the neural transportation that i've talked about in the beginning and also maybe the direct neural activity, which is the dream.
a market where we can move our ideas directly into digital media.
can you imagine that we can transcend language and communicate directly through human ideas
what can we do then
and also how can we learn to really deal with the human ideas that have not been filmed
you think the internet is big.
there's huge questions.
it may be a non-resistant way to amplify our ideas and skills of our communication.
and indeed, this same tool would lead to a cure for alzheimer's disease and similar diseases.
we have enough choices to open the door.
some look, a year ago, would this happen in 18 years
it's hard to imagine that it would take longer.
we need to learn how to do that one together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about going out, not as usual to hear, not about homosexuality.
i think we all have secrets.
it might be a secret to tell someone you love for the first time, or to tell someone that you're pregnant, or to tell someone that you're cancer-related, or to start any other difficult conversation that we might have during our lifetime.
every talk about a secret, it's a hard talk, and although our topics may be so different, it's that the experience of living and free from closing is a global experience.
it's a scary thing to hate, but we have to do it.
some years ago, i was working in the southwest and girls caught up in the city, and during my work, i was talking through very hard female fights: not a slow-minded division of songs of "i am dick francisco" ballot.
and according to the sabbath of my short-term cabinet and how recently i've been riding my head, the question is often about me, usually by a little kid: "are you a boy or a girl"
and there's going to be a embarrassing silence at the table.
so jawker a little bit more, carry the coffee pot in a little more revenge.
parents move their newspaper kicked in a confusing way and mom releases a look at her baby hair feel to her eternity.
but i don't say anything, and i keep being intrinsically interested.
i arrived at a point where every time i walked to a table with a three- to 10-year-old on it, i was ready to fight.
and this is a terrible feeling.
so i came back, next time i'd say something.
and i'm going to take that hard discussion.
so, within weeks, it happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
silence is familiar, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all the women's preliminary studies at this table. i have a quote by betty fred.
i have a quote from the gloria steinem.
i even have a few clips from vagina monogues to do them.
so i took a deep breath, and i looked down and i looked at my face and she was a four-year-old girl in a rose dress, not a challenge for feminism, just a child who had a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another deep breath, and i sat a dead date down next to it, and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of confusing.
shame hair like a boy, and i wear a boy's clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear a rose dress, and sometimes you want to wear your comfortable bedroom clothes
well, i'm the kind of girl who gets shipped in comfortable nightwear. "
and she looked at me carefully, and she said, "my favorite sleeping clothes are the purple with fish.
can i get a pies, please "
and so it was. just, "oh, well, you're a girl.
what about that pies "
the easiest difficult conversation i ever had was ever given.
and why because the funeral girl and i, we were both as real as one with each other.
so like many of us, i lived in a few tanks in my life, and yes, often, two walls happened to be a rainbow.
but inside, in the dark, you can't say what the color of these walls are.
you only know what you feel in a closet.
so really, my clothing cabinet is not different from what you have, or what you have.
sure, i'm going to give you 100 reasons why my experience was harder than your experiences, but here's the link: a word that's not relatively difficult.
it's difficult.
who can tell me to explain to someone that you declared your breakthrough is harder to tell someone that you just deceived
who can tell me that the story of his confession is harder to tell your five year-old child that you're heading towards divorce
there's nothing harder, it's just hard.
we need to stop our problems with other people's problems in order to hide ourselves or increase the burden of our problems and to inherit the similar fact that we all suffer from difficulties.
at some point in our lives, we all live inside the tanks, which might feel safe, or at least safer than behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter what you've made of, the closet is not a place to live in.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
for me, i had foggers like the horse tail, a diamond, and a shoew and a high heel.
i wasn't that hypocratic ideology ready to battle with any fourth child that came to the cafe.
i was frozen, sticking on the corner of my stone, the black knife holding the homosexual bomb, and the footing on any movement is the most horrible thing i've ever done.
my family and friends and strangers -- i spent my whole life trying to satisfy them and not disappoint them, and now i'm turning things around on the front.
i was burning the scenario pages that we've long been triggering for a long time, so if you don't get that bomb away, it's going to wipe you up.
one of the most living memories of the bombs i ever gave was at my sister's marriage.
this was the first time i had a large number to know that i was gay, and during my guests, in the black and high album, i would wandering around tables and then i stopped a hero that my parents sat on, people who had known me for years.
shortly after, one of the women screamed, "i love nathan len!"
then a war against homosexuality.
"oh, have you ever been to castro"
"well, yeah, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we haven't been there before, but we've heard it's amazing."
"uh, you know anthonymous
he's a really good guy and he never talked about his girlfriend. "
"ash, what's your favorite tv show
our favorite program: will and grace.
and you know who we love jack.
jack is our favorite. "
and then one woman, tired but she wanted to show her support, and she called me up at my classroom, and at the end she said she and not thinking, "well, sometimes my husband's wearing a lonely t-shirt."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody was throwing their bombs.
i could go back to my friend and to my beloved homosexual table and be bothered by responding to them, punishing them on their naive and deficiting through the homosexuals i brought with me, or i could empathize with them and notice that maybe that was one of the hardest things they did, that we began to replace that discussion.
of course, it was easy to point out how they felt.
they're much more difficult to admit the fact that they were trying.
and what can someone be advised not to try
if you're aiming to honesty with someone, you have to be willing to have the other way around.
so sharp conversations are still not my strength.
ask anybody i promised.
but i get better, and i follow what i like to call the three-dimensional girl's pies.
now, please look at it through a perspective of someone like me, but you know what it takes to go out and basically it's the same thing.
number one: be authentic.
take the shield. be yourself.
the kid in the cafe didn't hold a arm, but i was ready for the battle.
if you want someone to be honest with you, they need to know that you're also playing.
number two: be clear. just say it. break the barriers.
if you're gay, admit it.
if you told your parents that you might be gay, they would have hope that they would change that.
don't give them that sense of false hopes.
three koroughs, more importantly, don't apologize.
you tell who you really are.
don't apologize to that at all.
some of them can be hurt along the way, so, apologize for your actions, but never apologize for who you are.
well, some might be disappointed by you, but that's about them, not about you.
these are their own expectations around you, not your expectations.
that's their story, not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you wanted to write.
so next time you find yourself in the closet, you get the blacks holding your bomb, i know we've all been there before.
you may feel so lonely, but you're not.
we know that's hard, but we need you here, no matter what walls have been made, because i guarantee you that there are others staring through their keys looking into the courageous soul to open the door, so be that person and show the world that we are larger than our tanks and that cabin is not a place where people can live in.
thank you, boulder. enjoy your evening.
interesting -- what is it
if we look at the evolution of perspective on intelligence, one of the first examples was the famous quote of the decickstar of the saying, "the question of whether a machine can think as well as whether a submarine can swim."
now, the dawn of descartes, when he wrote this, he meant it was a suit for the early computer scientists, like alan turing.
but, if you look back and think about what is the most empowering creativity that has enabled us to build artificial machines and artificial machines that fly, you find that just by understanding the underlying physics mechanisms in swimming and flying, we've been able to build these machines.
and so, a few years ago, i started a program to try to understand the fundamental physics mechanisms that underlies intelligence.
let's step back.
let's first start with an intellectual experiment.
imagine that you're an alien sex that doesn't know anything about the biology on earth or the neuroscience on earth or the intelligence on earth, but you have wonderful telescopes that you can watch the earth, and you have very long life, so that you can watch the earth within millions, but billions of years.
and i've seen a really strange effect.
i've seen, during the millennia, the earth is constantly beaten up by asteroids until some point, and this is almost a period of time, indicating about a year, 2,000 bc, that asteroids that are beaten up on the earth that are supposed to collide with are wrecked or blown before they hit earth.
now of course, as the earth's population, we know why we might try to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent collision.
but if you're an alien sex who doesn't know any of this, and doesn't have any concept of the earth's intelligence, you're forced to create a physical theory that explains how, even a certain point in time, asteroids that are degrading the surface of a planet that have vaguely stopped doing it.
so i claim that this is the same question in understanding the physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program that i've given a few years ago, i looked at a variety of subjects in science, and in many areas, which i think were referring, to a latent, single, intelligent mechanism.
in cosmology, for example, there have been many different topics that are indicating that our universe seems to be very accurate in the way of developing intelligence, and in particular, to develop cosmic conditions that increase the rise of diversity in potential future times.
in games, for example, in odor game -- everybody remembers in 1997 when deep blue that ibm kasparov made in chess -- a few people realize that in the last 10 years, in the game, it's said it's a much more challenging game because it has a much more branching factor, too, i'm in
they're technologies that are trying to increase future choices to as much as possible through play.
ultimately, in motor planning, there are many new technologies that are trying to exploit robotic behavior to increase future action to the highest limitations to achieve complex tasks.
and so, taking all these topics and putting them together, i wondered, a few years ago, is there a potential technology for intelligence that we can isolate from all these different topics
is there a single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yes. ["f."] what you see is probably the closest to e 0.m. "for intelligence i've ever seen.
so what you're seeing here is the consent of the hyper-interest that intelligence is forced, f, which is increasing the freedom of the future to the highest limit.
it's increasing the freedom of future behavior to the highest boundaries, or keeping choices available, using some t, with the diversity of future time possible, s, even the horizon of future time, tao.
in short, intelligence doesn't like to be inspected.
interestingness likes to increase the freedom of future behavior to the maximum boundaries and keep choices open.
and so, having this one equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
how predictable is it
does it predict human intelligence
do you predict artificial intelligence
so i'm going to show you a video now that, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this one equation only.
narrator: modern research suggested in cosmology that universes that produce more chaos, or the entropy, during their lifetime, must tend to have more conditions than the existence of intelligent beings as our own.
but what if this universal relationship between entropy and intelligence refers to a deeper relationship
what if intelligent behavior isn't only about long-term anthropomorphizing, but actually just emerging directly from it
to find out, we've developed a software engine called entropy, designed to increase the long-term entropy production of any system that he finds himself in.
introvertedly, antarctica was able to succeed in several animal intelligence tests, in playing human games, and even in making money by stock transactions, all without giving them instructions to do that.
these are some examples of entropy actually.
just as a person standing upright without falling, here you see an entropy equivalent to a stick figure using a cart.
this behavior is partly exceptional because we never gave entropy a goal.
he decided to balance the stick.
this capacity to balance will have applications in human robots and in technology to help humans.
just as animals use things in their environment as tools to get to the narrow spaces, here we see antarctica, again with their individual initiatives, being able to move a big disk to another place to make a small disk, a tool, up to a small space where there's a third disk and editing the third disk from the original position.
this tool uses the ability will have applications in industry and smart farming.
also, just like some other animals that are able to collaborate to pull down the rope end at the same time to release the food, here we see that entropy can do a typical version of that task.
this ability to collaborate is an interesting application for economic planning and many other areas.
europeica has a wide application in many domains.
for example, here we see it playing bong's success against itself, and it shows its ability to play.
here we see entropy being informed new connections on a social network where friends continuously cut and maintain the success of good connectivity to the network.
this ability to synthesize networks also applications in health care, energy, intelligence.
here we see an entropy running longer paths of ships, exploring successfully and using the panama canal from the atlantic ocean to the pacific.
using the model itself, entropy has a wide range of problems with self-direction, logistics and transportation.
finally, here we see an entropy discovering spontaneously and doing a cheap-free plan, at a high price rate in the market of the simulated financial papers, and increasing the properties that he runs very successfully.
this ability to organize risk will have broad applications in the economy and in insurance.
alex weisner-ggender: so what you've just seen is that a bunch of human intelligent cognitive behavior as tools and walking in a format and social collaboration are all following one equation, which is a system that is driving its freedom to a greater future behavior.
now, there's a deep irony here.
back to the beginning there was always a notion that if we developed robotic intelligence, there would be a robotic revolution.
the mechanisms will be under us.
one of the major consequences of this work is that perhaps all of these decades, we had the opposite of the automatic revolution.
it's not that machines get smart at the beginning and then they get crazy and they try to control the world.
it's the opposite, that the tendency to control all future time and future time is more fundamental than the principle of intelligence, that public intelligence can actually be broadcast directly from control, rather than the opposite.
another important punishment is targeted.
i'm often asking, how do you explain the ability to look for goals in this framework
and the answer is, the ability to look for goals to be explained directly from this: as you go through a tunnel, a bottle in your future space, in order to achieve many other goals later, or as you invest in financial guaranteedness, reducing your short-term resilience in order to increase your wealth in the long term, searching for the next two-way searches
it's about a long-term motivation to increase freedom of your future.
and finally, richard feynman, a well-known physicist, wrote that if human civilization destroyed and were able to give only one principle to help them rebuild civilization, that principle must have all of the material around us made out of small elements that attract each other when you move away, but when you get close to them, when you get close to them.
my other version of this quote is that we give our grandchildren to help them build artificial intelligence or help them understand human intelligence, is this: intelligence should be seen as a physical process that is trying to increase the freedom of future behavior into the highest limitations of its future.
thank you very much.