i'm going to talk to you today about 30 years of engineering history.
this is a very big thing to summarize in 18 minutes.
it's a complicated topic, so we're going to direct a complex place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i was from new jersey, i was six years old, and i was living there with my father in a town called levittgenston, and this was a bedroom.
at the corner of my room, there was a bathroom that i shared with my sister.
and between my room and the shower was a balcony for the living room.
and that's where everybody would gather to watch tv, so every time i went from my room to the bathroom, everybody would see me, and every time i bathed and pulled out my anchor, everybody would see me.
i looked like this.
i was weird, i didn't feel safe, so i hated that feeling.
i hated that livestock, that balcony, i hated that room, that home.
and that's architecture.
it's gone.
that feeling, that feeling, that's the power of architecture, because architecture isn't mathematics and division. it's those charged sensory intersections that we feel in the places we operate.
and it's no wonder that we're feeling that way, because by the environmental protection agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
90 percent of our time is surrounded by engineering.
this is a huge thing.
which means that engineering determines who we are in ways that we never knew.
what makes us something naive, and we can predict what we want is very easily.
that means that when i show you a building like this, i know what you're going to think: you're going to think "power" and "stability" and "democracy."
and i know you're thinking that way, because it's based on building the basis of 2,500 cents ago by the greeks.
that's the trick.
this is the incentive that engineers use to create that emotional connection with the forms that we build buildings.
it's a predictable emotional connection, and we've been using it for quite a long time.
we used it 200 years ago to build the bank.
we used it in the 19th century to build artifacts.
in the 20th century, in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young, stable, hard-wired soldiers, heading for the ocean to take the risks.
this is very useful, because building things is horrifying.
it's expensive, it takes a long time, and it's too complicated.
and who's building these things -- developers and governments -- are naturally afraid of innovation, and they'd better use only the forms that they know you're going to respond to.
so we end up having buildings like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is the ligon public library that was finished in 2004 in my hometown, and it's got a dome and that circular thing, with a column, with a red wedding, and you can guess what levitton is trying to say through this building: children, property values and history.
but it doesn't have much similarities with what libraries are doing today.
that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, was finished building another library. it looked like this.
in seattle.
this library is about how we're used to media in digital time.
they're sort of a public immune to the city, a place of crowdsourcing and reading and sharing opinions.
so how is it possible that in the same year, in the same country, two buildings, both written, completely different
and the answer is that engineering works on the principle of per hour.
on the first side we find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing the direction of adopting new technologies, studying new symbols, new solutions to how we live today.
that's that we pay, push and push until we get you all drifting.
we're wearing black clothes, we're depressed, you think we're loving, we're dying in us, because ultimately we have no other option.
we have to go to the other side to engage again those symbols that we know you love.
we do this, and you become happy, and we feel like a fiction, and we start testing again, and we go back and do it over the last 300 years, and certainly in the last 30 years.
thirty years ago, we just came out of the '70s.
the engineers then were busy testing something called brutal architecture.
it's very concrete.
you can guess.
small windows, inhuman measurements.
this is very difficult.
coming closer to the 1980s, we started sharing these symbols.
so we push the scorpion to the other side.
we take those shapes that we know you love and we update them.
we add neon, we add paris, we use new materials.
you open it up.
we can't satisfy you enough.
we take english cabinets, we turn them into skyscrapers, they can be sloppy shorts of middle ages.
as the sizes got bigger, i became more colorful and severe.
a dwarf became the size of a column.
it's as big as buildings.
it was crazy.
but it's the 1980s, so it's great.
we all meet in commercial communities and we all move to live in suburbs, and there, in suburbs, we can create geometric imagination.
and these options can be medium or french or italian.
maybe they have infinite bread.
that's the post- attendance idea.
that's the idea that's about symbols.
they're easy, cheap, because instead of building places, we make memories of places.
because i know, and i know you all know, this is not a tropical one.
it's actually ohio.
so engineers are worried, so we start to bring the clock to the other side.
in the late '80s and early' 90s, we started testing what we call the demolition movement.
we're beginning to give historical symbols away, and we're used to new design technologies that are supported by the computer, and we've come up with a bunch of new structures, from wreckage to shapes.
these are academic and hard things, and they're not completely loved. we're doing a lot.
the punishment often swooshes back to the other side.
and then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is guggenheim bellubo for his frank gehry engineer.
and this building has radically changed the relationship of the world with engineering.
paul goldberg said that bella was one of those superstar signs when critics and academics are completely defined by a building.
new york times considered this building as a miracle.
violence has doubled in beijing 2500 percent after we've finished this building.
suddenly, everybody wanted one of these buildings: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, cleveland, springs.
everyone wanted a similar building, and my instinct became running around.
he's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how is it possible for these shapes -- universities and traditional -- how could they be all over the world
this happened because the media was so successful in telling us quickly that these shapes mean culture and tourism.
so we created an emotional reaction towards these shapes.
and so did every city mayor in the world.
so every mayor knows that if his city has forms like this, it has culture and tourism.
this phenomenon happened with the beginning of the new millennium of some of the other engineers.
i got along with her corkscrew, and what happened with this few elite engineers with the beginning of the new millennium, was to begin to impact the geometry as a whole, where digital media started to increase the speed at which we consume information.
think about how you consume engineering.
from 1,000 years ago, you had to walk towards the next village to see a building.
transports speeds: you can sail in a ship, use an airplane, be a tourist.
technology is increasing: you can see it on the newspaper, on tv, in the end, we're all photographers, and the spirit of the building has been released from the site.
engineering is everywhere now, and that means that the speed of communication is finally achieved at the speed of engineering.
because engineering is moving pretty quickly.
you don't need to think about designing a long-term building.
it's the building that takes a long time, three or four years, and then it's going to design an engineer or eight or 100 other building before it knows whether the building was designed four years ago or not.
so there's no feedback loop in engineering.
so you end up with buildings like this.
not only is brutal architecture and only two years, it's a 20-year-old movement.
twenty years ago, we've been going out to existing buildings like this because we didn't know how much you hated.
it won't happen again, i think, because we live on the edge of one of the great engineering revolutions since the invention of concrete, steel, the elevator, and what has been with it from a media revolution.
so my theory is that when you apply media to the dance of an hour, it starts to move faster and faster, until the maximum it gets more synchronized, and this is really worth the difference between creativity and symbols, between engineers, between you and the general public.
we can now create emotionally charged symbols of something completely new.
let me show you how this works by a project that i just recently finished.
we were brought to replace this building that was demolished.
this is a city center called the "the pinez" in fire island in new york.
it's a tourist cluster.
we proposed a building that was about courage, it was different from all the buildings that the population was coming back, we were scared and we were scared and the people were scared, and we created a series of real forms of preparation and put it on facebook and put it on instagram, and we let people start doing what they're doing: sharing it.
but that meant that before the building was finished two years ago, the building was already part of the community, and when the settings seemed exactly identical to the final product, there would be no surprise.
this was already a part of the community, and then in the first summer, when people started ramping and sharing images of building on social media, building was no longer just a building but it became an advertising, because it's not just pictures of a building, it's your picture of this building.
and when you use it to tell your story, it becomes part of your narrative, and what you're doing is shortening the way on our collective memory, and creating these emotional symbols for us to understand them.
that means we don't need greeks anymore to fill us with what we need to think about engineering.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media has not only changed our relationship to each other, but it's also the relationship between us and buildings.
think for a moment in the libraries of the library there in lisigon.
if that building were going to be built today, the first thing they would do was go online and look for "new libraries."
they'll be surprised by examples of testing, about creativity, and think deeper about what the library is.
that's the ammunition.
that's the ammunition that they can take for the mayor of liverstone, and the ligamenton, and let's say, there's not a single definition of what the library is today.
and let's be part of this.
highly experimentation gives them freedom to test them.
everything is different now.
the engineers are no longer the mysterious creatures that use inspirational words and drawings that have been difficult, and they've never come back to the public that's abandoned, the customers that will never accept anything they've never seen before.
engineers listen to you, and you're not afraid of engineering.
that means that the dance of an hour that swings forward and backwards from one way to another, from one movement to another, no longer makes any sense.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions to the problems our society faces.
that's the end of the history of engineering, and that means tomorrow's building will look very different than the buildings of today.
which means that the public spaces in the old city of archipelago could be unique and designed in ways that a new city works.
what that means is that a parrot in brooklyn can be a slave there, not to be a historical tradition of the red wave we think of as being a player.
that means that robots will build our buildings, because we're finally ready to accommodate the forms that they will produce.
it also means that buildings are going to be synthesized with nature's air, not the other way around.
that means that a parking lot in miami beach in florida, it can be a place for sports and lioga and you can also marry there late at night.
that means that three engineers dream of swimming in the east river in new york city, and they collect about half a million dollars from people who gathered around their cause, not even a single customer.
that means that there's no smaller building than to be creative in, like this little ellipse wing, it's powerful and string like the animals that are designed to watch.
that means not to be a beautiful building to be liked, like this ugly building in spain, where the engineers drilled a hole, filled it with a straw, and then they emptied the concrete around it, and when the concrete dried, they invited somebody to come and clean the straw so that this little hidden room could remain invisible.
which became one of the most magical places to see spanish.
because it doesn't matter if it's a cow from our daughter or a robot that's built.
no matter how we build, what matters is what we build.
the engineers already know how to build green buildings that are smarter and easier to use.
we were just waiting for all of you to like it.
and finally, we're never on the other side.
find an engineer, use an engineer, work with us to design better buildings, better cities, and a better world, because standards are high.
the buildings don't reflect our society, they define its features through the most basic space: local libraries, houses in which we raise our children, and the corridor they take from the bedroom to the bathroom.
thank you.
this is my niece steel.
she just turned year and started walking.
and she walks that great way, like all the children in their first year, where they're melting.
it's absolutely wonderful.
and one of her favorite things about right now is that she's staring at herself in the mirror.
she certainly loves her reflection on the mirror.
she laughs, sweats, kisses and kisses herself those large wet kisses.
it's a beautiful thing.
and it seemed that all her friends were doing this, and my mother also told me that i was doing it, and that invited me to think when did i stop doing it
when's it all of a sudden that we don't like our appearance
because obviously we don't like our appearance.
every month, 10,000 people are looking at google, "am i ugly"
this is fi, 13 years old and living in denver.
and like any teenager, you want to be loved and accepted.
it's a sunday night.
she's ready for school next week.
she's a little scared and she's a disaster because even though her mother tells her all the time, she's beautiful every day in school, somebody tells her she's ugly.
and because of the difference between her mother and what her peers say at school don't know who she is.
so imagine a video of herself, and you put it on youtube, and you ask people, and you ask them to write a comment, "am i beautiful or ugly"
ok, so far we've got 13,000 comments.
some of the comments are disgusting, and they don't even start thinking about it.
this is an adolescent girl who looks like this, who receives feedback like this in the most sensitive time of her life.
thousands of people are publishing videos like this, most of them teenage girls are communicating this way.
but what led them to do that
well teenagers these days are rarely alone.
they're under pressure to be online all the time talking, sending messages and wondering.
and they comment and post -- this is never finished -- we've never had this connection in this constant, instant, instantaneous way and young age.
as one mother told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
simply, there's no privacy.
and the social pressures that go along this are tough.
this is an environment of continuous connectivity for our children that is trained to value themselves according to the number of answers they get and the kinds of comments they receive.
there is no separation between life online and life outside.
it's hard to recognize what's real and what's false.
it's also very hard to distinguish what's original and what's digitally manipulated.
what's the important event versus everyday events
where are they looking for inspiration
let's see the kinds of images that fill girls' news sources these days.
unemployment contraceptives make platforms.
one of the usual is re-drawning wave features, and we've come to see disasters of the press.
it's about the space between the two thighs.
and these derivatives encourage the loss of appetite.
these trends have a completely materialistic view of women in public culture.
it's not hard to find out what girls compare themselves to.
but boys aren't that good either.
we see them as broad dementia and hypergiene muscles as sports and singers, but what's the problem with all this
of course, we want our children to be created as mastered individuals, but with a culture that is obsessed with shape, we raise them.
by spending time and effort paying attention to their appearance as their social relationships and their physical skills.
they start to deteriorate.
six out of 10 girls choose not to do a task to think that they're not so beautiful.
we're not talking about secondary activities, we're talking about fundamental activities, we're going to mature people, we're going to have 30 percent of all teenagers.
they pull out the conversations in the classroom don't share because they don't want to.
i called them up to one in five out of school when they're not satisfied, let's talk about tests when you think you don't look good.
specifically, if you think you're not graceful.
you're going to reduce your degree.
those who don't worry about this have been fixed in finland and the united states and china, regardless of what your real weight is.
to explain more, we're talking about.
you think about your shape and not your real shape.
the lack of confidence in appearance reduced the school level and the health is destroyed when teenagers are less likely to be trusted, they exercise less, they don't eat fruit and vegetables.
and it does unhealthy diets.
it leads to eating disorders and it decreases.
it makes it more affected by the opinions of others and exposing to depression, and all of these things make them more alcoholic and drug abuse.
and unhealthy food and cosmetic surgery and engaging in sexual exercises and hurt themselves.
the pursuit of the perfect body is playing hospitals.
our governments cost billions of dollars every year, and we don't stop them, women who think they're toxic.
no matter whether or not they do that, they actually miss the work much more to do a job interview on the day when you don't feel confident about it.
let's think about the impact of this on our economy.
and what will we do if we overcome this, we allow these possibilities to be in the interest of each and every one of us
but how do we do that
talking alone is about problems.
it's not enough to solve it.
if we want to make a difference, we need to do something.
there are three ways to create change: first awareness in the form of trust, we have to teach teenagers.
how to overcome the pressure is perfectly perfect how to build their self-esteem.
it's good to have programs that mean that now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come with the consequences of a recession when i realized that a lot of these good programs are good.
it increases so unintended, and that's why we have to make sure that our children are not receiving programs that only leave positive effects.
it's always left an effect that has shown that the best awareness programs can address basic aspects.
the first is the impact of family, friends, other relationships, the impact of media and celebrities, and then dealing with harassments, and so peers, how we compete and compare ourselves to others based on our forms and talk about appearance, and another self-esteem.
these six key points for anyone who's seriously beginning to educate effectively.
education and awareness are very important, but this problem requires each of us to be a good role model for women and girls that are close to it.
and challenge the situation that women are showing in our societies.
we don't have to judge leadership efficiency by climbing hair or chests or expecting success to play olympics because they don't run necks for beauty.
we need to see people with their actions.
we need to be interested in the kinds of images that we spread and the comments that we write in social networks.
we've got to prove people to the effort they've done and the business they've done, not in their forms.
let me ask you when was the last time you ever had a mirror
and finally, we have to work together as communities and governments and entrepreneurs to change this culture to raise our children to appreciate their own self-esteem and respect, the disparity and belonging.
we need to emerge the people who are active in society as the potential of the super people in the world.
we highlight them, and when we do that, then we can make change.
we want to create a world where our children's children feel free to be the best of what they can possibly consider to be a world where they don't care about what they aspire to or achieve what they want in life.
think about what this is going to mean for anyone in your life.
who's thought of it
is it your wife
your sister
your daughter
his son, brother
your girlfriend, or it could be the woman you are as far as you are now.
what would it mean for her if she moved from that criticized voice inside of her, which worried her to make her legs longer, or to take her thighs or her belly, or her nostalgia, or her lungs
what would it mean for her to overcome this and unleash her potential for it
today, our culture is in the picture.
but let's show our kids the truth.
let's show them that their appearance is just one part of their identity and that we love them for their own selves and their actions and the feelings that they feel.
let's integrate self-worth into our curriculum.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to others.
let's work together as communities of roots to governments to make the happy kids today, making changemakers trust themselves tomorrow.
let's do that.
on november 5, 1990, a man named mr.ira entered a hotel in manhattan and killed the rabbi kahn, a jewish leader.
it wasn't that the murder was mainly convicted, but when he was spending a sin on lighter issues, he was planning with other men's attacks on tens of sites in new york city, including spending and jewish temples and the headquarters of the united nations.
luckily, these diagrams were frustrated by a client in the federal investigation.
unfortunately, in 1993, the world trade center was not frustrated.
we were finally convicted to be involved in the process.
mr. fate is my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, in pennsylvania in 1983, an egyptian engineer, and who was a lovely american, was a primary grade teacher, and he did all of them to make me live a happy childhood.
i had seven years of age that our family's vitality is changing.
when my father showed me on the side of islam a few people, including the majority of muslims, they wouldn't see it.
my own experience says that when people take time to communicate with each other, it doesn't take effort to realize that in all, we're all anticipating the same things in life.
but in every religion, in every society, you will find a few people who are passionately attached to their beliefs so that they feel that they have to use all the means necessary to get others to live as they do.
a few months before his arrest, he sat down and explained to me that during the weekends, some of his friends were going to do the protection exercise of long island to exercise the goals.
and he told me that i was going to spend the next morning.
we got to the field of protection calibration, which was, without the knowledge of our group, watching by the fbi.
when my role to shoot, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explain to me how i should target the target 30 yards away.
that day, the last bullet was shot by the little orange light that was on the top of the goal and what was surprising to everybody, especially to me, that the whole goal had exploded.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and he said to arabic, "daddy's son."
that's the shell of that lion.
and apparently they burst into this comment, but it took a few years to understand exactly what they thought was funny.
they thought they saw in me the same destruction that my father was able to do.
these guys were ultimately convicted of a mission of putting a small truck load of 1,500 pounds of explosives on the ground floor for a parking lot on the north tower for the world trade center, causing the explosion of six people to kill more than 1,000 people.
these guys were my role models.
these were people who called "amoe," which means "uncle."
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, not stabilizing that during my childhood, not really given me a chance to identify many friends.
every time i start feeling relieved to someone, it's the period that we have to collect our bags to move to the next city.
and being the new student in the classroom, i've often been vulnerable.
i was hiding my identity about my classmates to avoid my target, but it turned out that, being a quiet kid and celestial boy in the classroom was making a good vicious ammunition.
so often, i would spend my day at home looking at books and watching tv or playing video games.
and for those reasons, i was missing social skills, at least estimate, and raised at a fan's office, i couldn't be prepared to face the real world.
i grew up judging people based on arbitrary scales, like race or religion.
so what opened my eyes
one of my first experiments that challenged my thinking was during the presidential elections of the year 2000.
during my assistant program in college i was a member of the national council of youth in philadelphia.
my own group of young violence, and being a victim of most of my life, this was a subject that i was particularly excited about.
the members of the group were from all different life scenes.
one day, at the end of the council, i discovered that one of the children i believed was jewish.
now, it took me several days to show these details on the surface, and i realized there was no natural hostility among us.
i've never had a jewish friend before, and i've honestly felt that i've been able to overcome a hurdle i've been pregnant all my life to believe that it's impossible to overcome.
a major transformation point happened when i found a summer job at bush gardens, which is a entertainment garden.
there, i met people of various beliefs and cultures, and it turns out that this experiment was essential in the evolution of my personality.
for most of my life, i've been told that homosexuality is a sin, and therefore, all gay people have a negative effect.
and i happened to have the opportunity to work with gay actors in a display there, and then i soon discovered that some of them were kind of cute, and fewer people judged.
being harassed when i was a kid creating a kind of empathy for other people, and it seems unnatural to me that i would never treat nice people in any other way other than i would like to treat them.
and thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a kid with real life experience and deal with people.
i don't know what it's like to be gay, but i know very well what it means to be judged about something outside of my will.
then came "the daily shuh."
so john stewart was forcing me, every night i had to be intellectually honest with myself about my sweetheart and help me realize that there was nothing to do with sweat or religion or or or sexual orientation of his personality.
sometimes it was my father's character for me when i was yesterday of needing parents.
the inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and as a jewish comedian, he's done a lot more positive to see the world than my parents did, i don't have a loss for me.
one day, i was talking to my mother about how my worldview has started to change, and she told me something that i'm always carrying around in my heart as long as i live.
and she looked into the eye tired of carrying them out of the brainstorming enough in his life, and she said, "i've been tired of hatting people."
in that moment, i realized how much negative energy that hatred requires inside of you.
zack abraham is not my real name.
i changed it when my family decided to cut her connection to my parents and start a new life.
so why would i go public and put myself in a potentially risky situation
well, it's simple.
i'm doing this hopefully that there might be somebody who's forced to use violence might be listening to my story and realizing that there's a better way, that if you're vulnerable to that violence, and the non-toxic ideology, it's not tired.
instead, i chose to use my experience to fight against terrorism, against prejudice.
i do this for the victims of terrorism and their loved ones, and pain and the right loss that the terrorism has forced them to live.
for the victims of terrorism, i'm going to speak out loudly against these new businesses and the religion of what my father did.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not in religion or in race of one, and that the son doesn't have to follow my father's line.
i'm not my father.
thank you. thank you, all of you. thank you all. thank you very much.
now, you have a movie showing inside your head.
it's a wonderful multi-tracking movie.
and it's showing a 3d view and the surrounding sound technology of what you're seeing and you're hearing, but that's just the beginning.
your movie has a smell and taste and touch.
it has a sense of your body, your pain, your hunger and your brutality.
it has emotions, from anger and happiness.
and it's got memories, like the sights of your childhood being run in front of you.
and there's this continuous clinical comment on the stream of your conscious thinking.
and at the heart of this film you're testing it directly.
this film is your stream of consciousness, the experience of the mind and the world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental facts of human existence.
each of us is conscious.
for all of us in our own film, you and you are.
there's nothing we know a lot about directly.
at least, i know about my consciousness directly.
i can't be sure you're conscious.
consciousness also makes life worth living.
if we're not conscious, nothing in our lives would be meaningful or valuable.
but at the same time, consciousness is one of the most mysterious phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these inner films
why aren't we just robots processing all these inputs, producing all these outcomes, without testing this inner film at all
right now, no one has the answers to these questions.
i'm going to suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be a need for some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is objective in its nature.
and consciousness is inherently self-conscious.
so there can be no science of consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century this was the dominant view.
psychologists have studied behavioral behavior, and neuroscientists have studied subjectively, and no one even mentioned consciousness.
until 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little scientific research on consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, this all started to change.
neurologists like francis crick and physicists like roger penrose said it was time for science to study consciousness.
and since then, there's been a real explosion, a scientific research boom.
and this was a great job. it was special.
but he had some key restrictions so far.
the axis of consciousness has been in recent years looking for mutual relationships, interconnected relationships between certain areas of the brain and certain states of consciousness.
we've seen some of that kind of work from nancy kwischer and the wonderful work that i did a few minutes ago.
now we understand a lot better, for example, the kinds of brain regions that go along with the conscious experience of seeing faces or feeling pain or feeling happy.
but that's the science of interrelated relationships.
it's not explanation.
we know that these regions in the brain fit in with certain kinds of conscious experience, but we don't know why they work with them.
i'd like to illustrate this by saying that this kind of work of neuroscience answeres some of the questions that we want to answer about consciousness, questions about what some brain regions do and what they relate to.
but in a way, these are the easy problems.
you don't criticize neuroscientists.
there's really no easy in the problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't take the real mystery in the nomination of this: why should all the physical processing of the brain have to be completely aware
why is there such an internal self
now, we have nothing to explain.
you might say, let's just give neuroscience a few years.
it will turn to another emergent phenomenon like traffic congestion, like hurricane, like life, and we will find a solution to it.
the classic emergence cases are all cases of emergent behavior, how traffic congestion works, how hurricane works, how living organism breeds and adapts and contracts, all questions about object work.
you can apply that to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human brain function as emergent phenomena: how to walk, how to talk, how to play chess, all of these questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, the questions become about behavior among easy problems.
when it comes to the hard problem, the question becomes, why does all this behavior have a self-expressed experience
and here, the standard model of evolution, and even the standard model of neuroscience, doesn't really have much to say.
now, i'm somebody who's an educational person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, and for a long time, i've covered my head on the wall looking for a theory of consciousness in terms of pure physics that might work.
but i finally made it to the conclusion that it didn't work only for systematic reasons.
and that's a long story, but the basic idea is that what you get from the purely reductionistic explanations in physical terms, and in terms of the brain, are stories of how the system works; it's constructed, it's dynamic, it's a behavior that comes out, and it's great to solve the easy problems
this is something completely new, and this is always another question.
so i think we're sort of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're used to that, but the physics explains chemistry, and chemistry is broken by biology, and biology loses parts of psychology.
but consciousness doesn't seem to fit in with this image.
on the one hand, it's muslim that we're conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to contain it in our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness now is a kind of anomaly, and it's a sort of thing that we need to integrate into our vision of the world, but we don't see how it is yet.
in the confrontation of anomalies like this, you might need radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that look first crazy before we can deal with consciousness science.
now, there's a few slides of what these crazy ideas might look like.
my friend dan dennett, who's here today, has one.
his crazy idea is that there is no problem of consciousness.
the whole idea of inner film involves some kind of illusion or confusion.
in fact, all we have to do is explain the objective functions, the brain behaviors, and then we have explained everything that needs to be explained.
well, i say, i hope more power.
this is the kind of radical ideas that we need to explore if you want to get a purely reductionistic theory of consciousness based on the brain.
at the same time, for me and for many other people, this opinion is very close to denying a gun that is simply satisfied.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
in the remaining time, i want to explore two crazy ideas that i think may have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is the basis.
sometimes physicists take some basic aspects of the universe: space, time, mass.
and they assume fundamental laws that control them, like gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and laws are not legitimate in any fundamental way.
instead, it's taken as a mushroom, and that's where we build the world.
now occasionally, the list of principles is comprised.
in the 19th century, maxwell found that you couldn't explain electromagnetic phenomena in terms of the current principles of space and time and mass and newton's laws have made fundamental laws for electromagnetism and hypothesis as the essential element of those laws.
i think that's the situation we're in with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in the current basics of space and time and mass and charge, then, from the door of logic, we need to expand the list.
the natural thing to do is to hypothesize self-awareness as a fundamental, fundamental building block of nature.
it doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens up the way science is applied to it.
what we need then is to study the basic laws of consciousness, the laws that associate consciousness with other principles: space, time, mass, physical processes.
the physicists sometimes say that we want basic laws that are so simple that they can write on the front part of the t-shirt.
well i think something like this is the situation we're in relation to consciousness.
we want basic laws that are so simple that we can write them on the front part of the t-shirt.
we don't know what those laws are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness can be global.
each system can have some degrees of consciousness.
sometimes this view is called "pipelines," "pinnacles," "refer to public," "" ppc, "" refer to mind, "every conscious system, not just humans, dogs and flies, but even rubber microbes."
even the photon has a certain degree of consciousness.
the point is not that photons are intelligent or they're thinking.
and it's not that the photons describe it as anxiety because it thinks, "unfortunately, i'm always moving close to the speed of light.
i've never been able to slow down until i smell the flowers. "
no, not like that.
but the idea is that photons may have some element of raw self-expression, some primitive presentations of consciousness.
this might seem a little bit arrogant to you.
i mean, why would anyone think of this crazy thing
some of the motivations come from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is essential, such as space and time and mass, it's natural to assume it could be universal as well, as they are.
it's worth remembering that even though the idea is intuitive to us, it's less intuitive for people than different cultures, where the human mind is more connected to nature.
the deeper motivation comes from the idea that perhaps the most simple and powerful way to find the basic rules that connect consciousness to physical processing are linking awareness to information.
wherever there is information processing, there is consciousness.
treating complex information, as in humans, means complex consciousness.
and processing simple information means simple awareness.
and what's really interesting is that in the last few years, the neuroscientist julio tony took this kind of theory and developed accurately with mathematical theory.
it has a mathematical measure of the integration of information called the pi, and it measures the amount of information integrated within the system.
and the fi supposedly corresponds to consciousness.
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of integrated information, a high degree of fi, and a huge amount of consciousness.
in the mouse, there's an average degree of information integration, still matter, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when we come down to the maggots, the microbes, the particles, they have the amount of fi.
the amount of information is integrated also, but it's still above zero.
in tony's theory, there will still be zero degrees of consciousness.
in fact, he suggests a fundamental law of consciousness: the higher the fi, the greater consciousness.
now, i don't know if this theory is true, but it's actually what i think the leading theory now in consciousness, and it's been used to integrate a whole bunch of scientific data, and it has a beautiful property that it's actually very simple to write on the frontal part of a t-shirt.
the other and final motivation is that the general psychological trend can help us integrate consciousness into the physical world.
often the physicists and philosophers have noticed that physics is strangely abstract.
it describes the structure of reality using a set of equations, but it doesn't tell us about the reality that lies behind it.
as stephen hawking says, what puts the fire into the equations
well, by the opinion of psychopath, you can leave the equations of physics as it is, but you can make them describe the flow of consciousness.
that's really what physics does ultimately, it describes the flow of consciousness.
from this point of view, it's consciousness that puts fire into equations.
by the way, consciousness doesn't fit outside the physical world as a kind of addition.
it's right there at the heart of the physical world.
this view of view, i think, has the potential to change the appearance of our relationship to nature, and it may have some very serious social and moral consequences.
and some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i shouldn't eat anything that had consciousness, so i had to be a vegetarian.
now, if you're supported to channel self-help and take this view, you'll become very hungry.
so i think when you think about it, that's going to change your views, whereas what matters for moral purposes and organizational experiences, is not really that much awareness, but the degree of consciousness and complexity of it.
it's natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.
what about the a.i. system, samantha
is it conscious
well, if you take a psychological view, of course they have complex information processing and complex information, so it's very likely that the answer is yes, it's conscious.
if that's true, that raises serious ethical issues around the development of intelligent computer systems and ethics to close.
finally, you may be asking about the consciousness of all groups, this planet.
do the country have its own consciousness
or at a more local level, is an integral group like the audience at the ted conference, do we now have a collective consciousness of ted, an internal ted group different from the internal ted group to every part of our group
i don't know the answer to that question, but i think it's at least a question worth considering.
well, that's a psychological view, that's a radical vision, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident at the first crazy idea, which is awareness is essential, than my trust in the second idea, which is generally considered.
i mean, the viewer raises a number of questions and a number of challenges, like how those small pieces of consciousness are added to the kind of complex consciousness that we know and love.
if we can answer those questions, we're going to run the right path towards a serious theory of consciousness.
and if we can't, this is perhaps the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we can't expect to solve it overnight.
but i think we'll find a solution to it eventually.
understanding consciousness is the real key, i think, to understand the universe and to understand ourselves, both.
we just need the idea of crazy right.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village in victoria.
growing up was a normal nature.
i went to school and i hired my friends, and i struggled with my little sisters.
all of that was normal.
and when i was 15, someone in our local community called my family and wanted to nominate me to get a community accomplishment prize.
and my dad said, "that's really nice, but there's a single problem with that.
it's actually not done. "and they were right about it, you know.
i went to school, i got good grades, i had a small job after school in the salon of my mother to filter the hair, and i spent a lot of time watching "the vessel of blood vessels" and "doson ray."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but that was true.
i've never done anything outside the box.
i wasn't doing anything that could be considered a achievement if i pulled out of the equation.
years later, i was in my second school at melbourne high school, and i was 20 minutes before the semester of the year 11, and he raised his hand and said, "miss, when are you going to start throwing your word"
and i said, "what word"
you know, i've been explaining to them about the famous law for 20 minutes.
and he said, "you know, your motivational speech.
you know, when people come into school, they usually say inspirational things.
"they're usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: it was this only boy experience with special needs as inspiration.
but it's not, for this boy, and it's not his tail, i mean, that's true for a lot of us.
for many of us, disabilities are not our teachers, our doctors, our nails.
we're not real people. we're there to inspire.
and in fact, i'm sitting on this stage looking like i'm in this wheelchair and you're probably kind of expecting me to inspire you. right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i'm afraid i'm going to disappoint you very much.
i'm not here to inspire you.
i'm here to tell you that we were lied to disability.
yes, they've sold the lie that disability is a bad thing.
it's a bad thing, and to live with deficits that make you extraordinary.
it's not bad. it doesn't make you extraordinary.
in the last few years, we've been able to deploy this lie even further through social media.
you've probably seen pictures like this: "the only deficit in life is bad behavior."
or this one: "sorry, unacceptable." actually.
or this one: "before you stop, try!"
these are just a bunch of examples, but there are more of these examples.
you know, you may have seen this little girl without hand drawing a picture of her mouth.
or you may have seen a child running on artificial fibers of carbon fiber.
and these pictures, there are many of them that are what we call pornography.
and i use the term deliberately, because it embody one group of people to benefit another group of people.
so in this case, we embodied the disabled of uncertainty.
the purpose of these pictures is to inspire you, to motivate you to look at them and think, "well, whatever my life is bad, i can be worse.
i could have been that guy. "
but what if i was that person
i didn't count how many times it came close to strangers to tell me that they thought i was courageous or inspiring. and this was before my work sort of emerged to advertise.
they congratulated my ability to get up in the morning and remember my name.
and that confined us and turned us into an instrument of these images, these images with special needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they're there to look at them and then you think that everything is not bad for you, to make everything that worries you in perspective.
and life as a disabled person is really, really hard.
it's true that we're crossing some odds.
but those things that we overcome are not the ones you think.
it's not about our bodies.
i use the term "disabled people" on purpose, because i share with what's called the social model of disability, which tells us that we are more disabled by our society in which we live in our bodies or diagnoses.
and so, i've been in this body for a long time.
and i love it so much.
he does the things that he needs to do, and i've learned to use it on top of his capabilities as you've done, and that's what the children in those photos also did.
they're not doing anything extraordinary about nature.
they're using their bodies, according to the highest performance.
so, is it fair to trigger them and embody them in this way, to spread those images
when people say "you're an inspiration," they mean it as a compliment.
and i know why this is happening.
it's because of the lie, which they have sold to us that disability makes you an extraordinary, special person.
in fact don't.
and i know what you're thinking.
you know, i'm making fun of inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god, stella, don't you sometimes inspire you"
and the thing is, yes.
you learn from other disabled people all the time.
but i'm not even more fortunate than they are.
i'm learning that it's a brilliant idea to use the grinder to pick up things that have fallen off of you. i'm learning that amazing trick how to charge your phone battery through a wheelchair.
radio!
we're learning from each other, our forces and our contraceptives, not against our bodies and our diagnoses, but against a world that excites us and our bodies.
i really think that that flesh of disability is a big darkness.
it makes life hard for us.
and that saying, "the only disability in life is bad behavior," the reason that the nonsense is because it's not real, because of the social model of disability.
there are not enough smiles of a ladder that she converted into an electric section of the chairs.
eventually! smiling on a tv doesn't make the written text appear for deaf people.
there's not enough standing in the middle of a library and radiation library that will convert all those books into braille.
it will never happen.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the natural thing.
i want to live in a world where a 15-year-old girl is sitting in her room watching "the death penalty killer" referred to it but she's right now because she sees it as she's seated.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations of disabled people that we're just proportionate to get out of bed and remember our name in the morning.
i want to live in a world where we value the real achievements of disabled people, i want to live in a world where a kid at 11 o'clock high school is not surprising at all because his teacher uses a chair.
disability doesn't make you extraordinary, thank you. it asks you what you think you know that makes you special.
what does the integrated reality and soccer have to do with sensory communication
and what is the speed of flying the uninhabited years
unfortunately, i'm not going to answer just one of these questions, so please try to under your frustration.
when most people actually think about the "mandate" movie, "and tom cruise waves with his hands in the air, but the integrated reality isn't science fiction.
augmented reality is something that's going to happen in our lives, and it's going to happen because we have the tools to achieve that, and people have to realize that the integrated reality is going to change our lives just as much as the internet and cell phone.
so how do we get to augmented reality
the first step is the step i'm wearing right now, google glass.
i'm sure google glass is familiar to many of you.
what you might not compose is that google glass is a device that allows you to see what i see.
you're going to be allowed to experience the feeling of being a professional athlete in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try and describe it to you.
i have to use words.
i have to create a framework for you guys to fill in your imaginations.
with google glass, we can put this under a helmet, and we can feel what the enemy looks like at the field at 100 miles an hour, the blood flows in your ears.
you can feel something like having a 250-pound man running towards you trying to cut your head all over the place.
and i was at the recipient end of this and not feeling good.
now, i've got some shots to show you what google glass is like under a helmet to give you this feeling.
unfortunately, it's not shots from my local football role because i think emerging technology is what happens when you float a submarine, but we do what we can.
so, let's watch some videos.
ca: come on.
ah, exposure to collision is terrible.
so let's get a little closer.
so, ready
come on!
ca: so as you can see, there's a simple sense of what you're showing a collision in a football field from an intercepted perspective.
now, you may have noticed that there are some people who are not there: the rest of the team.
we have a video of that from the university of washington.
public player: come on, mice 54! mice 54!
"blue 8! blue 8! come on! come on!"
ah!
ca: again, this makes you a little bit closer to what it's like to be in the playground, but that's not even as close to being at the local football role.
the encouraged people want that experience.
they want to be in the playground.
they want to be their favorite players, and they've already talked to me through youtube, through twitter, saying, "can that apply to the main player
on the back player
we want that experience. "
well, once we get that experience with jubo and google glass, how do you boil the user more
how do we step the next step
well, we step by a so-called okollis revelation, and i'm sure many of you are familiar with it.
the october is described as one of the most real-time virtual equipment ever invented, and that's not false false.
i'm going to show you that's not a false claw on this video.
man: ah! ah!
no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh, my god! aaaaaah!
ca: so this is a man's experience on the death train scared his life.
how would you experience that encouraging experience when we're showing it to a video of adrian pittson taking off the line, the pushing off a strong arm before he runs the land
how would you experience that encouraging experience when macy rack is in the playground and put the ball behind the network, or fdm sends the ball in wimpton
how would you experience that encouraging experience when it's sliding down the mountain at more than 70 miles an hour as an olympic hills
i think grown-ups can go up.
but that's not the integrated reality yet.
that's just virtual reality.
how do we transform integrated reality
we turn to reality where the coaching and the coaches and the managers and the suppliers look at this information streaming from people's desire to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our team better
how do we use this to win games "
because the difference always uses technology to win games.
they like to win. this gives them money.
so a brief historical glimpse of technology in the role of the local football.
in 1965, bolt coltos put a big middle player to get him to play faster.
they won the super bowl this year.
the other difference will be deleted.
watch the game more people because it's getting more interesting.
it was faster.
in 1994, the local football courses put speakers inside the headquarters and then later defense.
witnesses watch more people because they were faster.
it was more fun.
in 2023, imagine you're a player going back to the crowd and you've been shown to play your next to your face entirely on your transparent plastics that you're wearing right now.
no more worry about game forgetting.
there's no more concern about carrying a game layer to remind you.
just get out and interact.
and the coaches really want it, because the incomplete tasks cause a game loss and the trainers hate a loss of games.
the loss of games shows you your separation from work as a coach.
they don't want to.
but compact reality isn't just a better game array.
augmented reality is also a way to get all that data and use it in real time to improve how you play a game.
how could that be
well, a very simple setup is a camera in every corner of the stadium that's pointed down and gives you a view of the top of everybody down there.
you also have information from helmet sensors and accelerators that are being done right now.
you take all that information, you make it flow to your players.
the good difference makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and the bad people produce more information.
that determines the good difference.
from bad. now, your information technology department is as important as the kaabin.
the mining of data is not for geeks anymore.
it could also be for cylinders who know
what would that look like in the playground
well, imagine you're a major middle player.
i took the passing and i went back.
you're exploring the court searching for free speech. all of a sudden, a bright flash on the left-hand side of the condom, you're learning that the invisible state is running toward you.
in the normal case, you won't see it, but the integrated reality system teaches you to.
you step into the target.
another blink is a free future.
the ball is flowing, but you're hit at the moment of the passing.
the ball is far from its trajectory.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on the rest of the future, he sees a patch of grass lighting up and he knows to edit.
he goes, he grabs the ball, he runs, and the earth touches.
the crowd goes really excited, and the encouraged people with it every step along the way, watching from every perspective.
now this is something that will create a huge distortion in the game.
it's going to make as many people watch, because people want this experiment.
the encouraged people want to be in the playground.
they want to be their favorite player.
the integrated reality would be part of sports, because it's so profitable.
but the question i'm going to ask you is this what we can use integrated reality
will we use it just for our food, for our fun, for our pleasure as familiar
because i think we can use the integrated reality of something more.
i'm sure we've been able to use merger reality as a way to promote sensory communication through human species itself, by literally showing someone what they look like to take someone else's place.
we know the value of this technology for mathematical courses.
it's worth getting revenue for billions of dollars a year.
but what is the value of this technology to a teacher in a classroom trying to show a conference how harmful was it from a victim
what's the value of this technology for an uganda or russian trying to show the world how to be living under persecution
what's the value of this two writers -- neil george tyson -- and they're trying to inspire a generation of kids to think about space and science -- rather than quarter reports per year, and a karajan
ladies and gentlemen, the integrated reality is coming.
the questions we ask, the choices we make, the challenges we face, as usual, come back to us.
thank you.
i recently retired from taking california roads after serving 23 years.
most of that time i've spent my period in south mariner county, which includes the golden gate bridge.
the bridge is a creative building, known worldwide as the aesthetic view of san francisco, the pacific ocean, and its inspirational engineering.
unfortunately, it's also the attractive factor of suicide, where it's amongst the world's most suicidal.
the gold gate bridge opened in 1937.
joseph starros, chairman of engineers, in charge of building the bridge quoted him, saying, "the bridge is practically anti- suicide.
the transition from the bridge is not practical and not possible. "
but then more than 1,600 people jumped to understand that bridge.
some believe that passing between the towers of the bridge is going to lead them to another dimension, this bridge carries a romantic idea of falling from it, moving from your pain and your sadness, and the water at the bottom is going to wash your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when the bridge uses suicide.
after free falling four or five seconds, the body hits the water quickly reaches 75 miles an hour.
that trauma disrupts bone, which then hacks through the biological organs.
a lot of people die of collision.
the people who don't die generally get it, floating around, not empowered, and then they drown.
i don't think the people who choose this way of suicide realize how horrific death is that way.
that's the connection.
except for the links around the towers, there's 32 inches of bridge parallel.
this is where most of these people stand before they kill themselves.
and from my experience, i can tell you that if a person gets to that connection, and in your moment of life, it's very difficult to reclaim.
i took this public picture of my past while this young woman was talking to the officer looking at her life.
and i can tell you happily that we've been able to successfully reclaim that day we can bring it back from the fence.
when i started working on a bridge, we weren't formal training coaches.
we had to meet these calls.
it wasn't just bad for those who were trying to commit suicide, it was also for officers.
it's been a long way since then.
now, ancient officers and psychiatrists train new officers.
this is jason garrett.
i met jason on june 22 last year when i received a call from a case that suspected he was trying to commit suicide in the middle of the bridge.
i responded, and when i arrived, i watched jason talking to the bridge officer.
jason was 32 years old and he came on an airplane from new jersey.
in fact, it came here twice before this time from new jersey to try to suicide from over this bridge.
after about an hour talking to jason, he asked if we knew the story of pandora's box.
if you remember in the greek myth, zos created pandora, send it to the ground with a box, and then tell her, "don't ever open the box."
but one day, he was curious, and he pushed it to open the box.
it took clay and sadness, and all sorts of evil against humans.
the only good in that box was hope.
then we asked jason, "what would happen if you opened the box and there was no hope"
i then shut up for a moment, money on his right, and then he left.
this young, smart guy from new jersey was just doing suicide.
i talk to my father jason that night, and i think as i'm talking to them, it doesn't seem like i've done everything i can and i can, because the next day, i'm calling the ink for the family to check me out.
jason's parents asked him to do that.
the nonviolent damage to suicide affects many people.
so i'm going to ask you this question: what are you going to do if someone in your family has your friends and who is trying to suicide
what would you say
how would you know what you're going to say
in my experience, it's not just talking, it's listening.
i listen to understanding.
don't argue, don't blame, don't tell that person that you feel it, because you probably don't feel it.
just by being there, it could be the turning point they need.
if you feel like someone's thinking suicide, you're not afraid to confront them and ask them about it.
one way to ask this question is this: "other people in similar circumstances have thought about ending their lives; have you ever gone through these ideas"
the face of the person directly could save his life and be a turning point for him.
some of the other signals that you can see: despair, believe that life is horrible and it's never going to improve; disability, belief that there is nothing you can do about it; retreat from social life; lose desire in life.
i had this talk a few days ago, and after i got an email from a woman that i wanted to read her letter to you.
she lost her son in january 19 this year, and she sent me this post just a few days ago, and after she agreed and i'll read you it.
"hello, kevin. i expect you're at ted now.
there has to be a great experience.
i think i'm supposed to walk on the bridge at the weekend.
so i wanted to leave you a note.
i'm hoping that people will reach home and tell their friends who tell their friends, etc.
i'm still a little more sophisticated, but i'm already beginning to realize that these moments that mike won't come home.
mike was driving his car from bella to san francisco to watch a san francisco 49 game with his father in january 19th.
but he didn't reach forever.
the battaloma police called and reported that night.
and the next morning, a officer came home and told me that a mike was standing next to a bridge.
and he observed him jumping off the bridge at 1: 58 p.m. today.
thank you very much for the synonymity of those who were just the temporary temporary, too vulnerable to don't have themselves.
who of us didn't even feel vulnerable without suffering from mental illness
it's very hard to eradicate.
let me get you into failing.
the golden gate bridge was supposed to be for our beautiful gulf, not for grave.
my wish is for you to park this week, winky. "
i can't imagine her courage to go to the bridge and walk the way her son asked her that day, and her courage only continued to survive.
i want to introduce you to a man who describes hope and courage.
on march 11th, 2005, i responded to a call on the radio as likely to attempt suicide on the sidewalk next to the north tower.
my motorcycle dropped on the pedestrian path and noticed that man, kevin bertha, standing on the sidewalk.
when he saw me, he immediately passed the pedestrian barrier, and he stood on that little tube that wrapped on the tower.
and for the whole hour and a half, i listened to kevin talking about his depression and desperation.
how did he decide that day to come back from that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, i congratulated him.
"this is a new beginning, this is a new life."
but i asked him, "what was it that made you come back and give life and hope another chance"
you know what he said to me
he said, "you listened to me.
she let me speak, and she just listened to me. "
shortly after this, i got a letter from mama kevin, and here's the message with me now, and i want to read it to you.
"dear mr. brigade, nothing will wipe out what happened on march 11, but one of the reasons why he stayed here today.
it was perfectly advertised that kevin had been distressing.
he was diagnosed with a mental illness that's now regularly treated.
i adopted kevin when he was six months old, and i never knew his inherited traits, but thanks to him, we know that now.
how to recover as he says.
we thank god for your existence.
the entrance and the city of you, the firefly firefly. "
and at the bottom of the message, i wrote, "ham, when i visited san francisco public hospital that night, they had written your name as the patient.
i swear that i wanted hard to correct that mistake. "
today, kevin became an active father and an active member of society.
he speaks frankly about the events of that day and about his depression in the hope that his story inspires others.
the suicide is not just something i've faced in my work.
it's personal.
my grandfather is committing suicide by poisoning himself.
even though that verb is over his own pain, it has brought me a chance to recognize him.
that's what suicide does.
most of the commanders, or people who think suicide, don't want to hurt someone else.
they just want to finish their own pain.
usually, this is achieved in three ways: sleep, drugs, alcohol or death.
in my work, i've been responding to hundreds of calls trying to suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i was the direct official in were lost only two conditions, but they are many.
one of them was jason.
the other one was a guy who talked to him about an hour.
as i'm talking to him, i shake my hand three times.
at the last shake, he looked at me, and he said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
he stood afterwards.
hello, totally horrifying.
i want to tell you too, that the vast majority of the people we meet on that bridge do not provide suicide.
also, those few who jumped off the bridge and lived and could talk about their experience, that one or two percent, most of them said that in that moment the barrier they had made a mistake, they knew they had made a mistake and they wanted to live again.
what i tell people, the bridge doesn't only reach marin san francisco, but it connects people together.
that connection or the bridge that we're creating, is something that each of us should fight for.
change is preventable.
there's help, there's hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different than you are, but, inside you, you know who you are, and that question burns in you: how do you become
maybe i'm unique, but i'm not alone, i'm not alone at all.
so when i became a fashion petition, i finally felt like i was going to make the dream i'd always dreamed of since i was a child.
my external personality matches my inner reality, with myself.
for a lot of complicated reasons, i'll get into it later, when i look at this picture, then i feel like i've achieved it. i've achieved it.
but in october, i realized that i was just at the beginning.
everyone, we've been put inside boxes by our parents, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even our own bodies.
some people have the courage to break that down, not accept the boundaries of their skin or because of beliefs about them.
these people are a continuous threat to the status quo, which is not acceptable.
in my case, over the past nine years, some of my neighbors, some of my friends and colleagues and even my own agent, did not know about my history.
i think, vaguely, this is what's called breakfast.
and this is secret.
i was recorded at birth as a boy based on the outside shape of my genitals.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, walking around the house, i always put a shirt on my head.
my mother was asking me, "how do you wear that t-shirt on your head all the time"
i was saying, "mom, that's my hair, i'm a girl."
i knew how to define myself.
sex was an absolute fact, unchanging reality, but now we know it's more resilient, more complex and mysterious.
because of my success, i didn't have the courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world deals with us, which we hope to live freely.
every day, i'm very grateful that i'm a woman.
i have a mother and fathers and family who accept my reality as much as i would like to be.
many are not that fortunate.
there's normally old in asian culture celebrating the amount of sex work.
there are buddhist gods of compassion.
there's hindu gods, the goddess of immigration.
and that's when i was eight, i was celebrating the philippines with those secrets.
i was at the front of the theater, and i remember, that beautiful lady appeared in front of me precisely, and i remember that moment something inside of me saying, this is what i want to be.
so when i was 15 years old, i still dressed a boy dress, and i met a woman named t.l.
he was the director of an exposure for a sexual transformer.
that night she asked me, "how didn't you join the camels"
she convinced me that if she wanted it would cost the recording and the clothes, and that night, she won the swimming clothes and the virtue in long dress and took the second center out of 40 subjects.
that moment changed my life.
and all of a sudden, i was introduced to the world's beautiful competition.
and it's not used to be the first career that's the queen of transgendered sex, but i dedicated the opportunity.
so from 15 years to 17 years i've even co-opt most of those competitions i've even joined in a competition that's been on a qatar truck. literally or, again, a contest that was done next to a farming field, and when it rains, and in the philippines it had to take the competition to the house of one
i've lived with strangers, especially when we travel to distant distances in the philippines.
but, more importantly, i met some of my best friends from that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said that i was approved as a permission for entering america, which meant i could move to america.
i did.
my mother told me, "mom, i'm enjoyable.
here with my friends, i love traveling, being a beautiful queen. "
but two weeks later, she called and she said, "do you know that in america you can change your name and your gender"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also told me to put an e-got in my name.
she also had me when i had surgery in thailand in my 19th year.
it's amazing, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand their performance is considered to be better and more honest and more secure in those surgery.
then in the united states, you should have surgery before you change the name and gender.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember when i wanted to get a driver's license in california, and my name was genna and the gender mark was "female."
that was a powerful moment.
for some people, the personal identity is to drive or even get alcohol, for me, it was my license to live, to feel binding.
and all of a sudden, i felt the fear started to melt.
i felt that i could achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a opposition.
many are not fortunate.
i think it's because of this woman named alice nelson.
she's from new york, and she's a young lady who's actually been living bravely, but hatred is surrounding her life.
and for the majority of my community, this is the reality of our lives.
our suicide rate is 99 times higher than the general average.
on november 20, we organize a global stop to mention the transformative day.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who have struggled and stood against injustice.
this is marcha pee and johnson, syria.
today, this particular moment, this is my real moment.
i could no longer live my truth for myself and my only alone.
i want to do better to help others live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, scribbled, even one day, there would be no need to stop the 20th of november.
my inner reality made me accept myself.
can you do that
thank you very much.
thank you very much, thank you very much. cg: jenn, quick question for you.
i'm wondering what you're going to say, especially for parents, but broader, for friends, family, for anyone who finds themselves confronted with a child or someone who's facing or passing a sex reckless position that's been identified, what can you say to that person's family to help them become better, more
jc: absolutely. first of all, i'm very lucky.
the support system, especially with my mother's support, and my family, itself, was very strong.
i remember every moment i would train a young, transgendered woman, recommend them, or sometimes when they call me and tell me that their parents don't accept that. i would pick up the phone and call my mother, "mom, can you talk to that woman"
and sometimes it works, and sometimes it doesn't work, but that's just the sex in our design, right
i mean, we've all been classified when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start that conversation is that sometimes the specific sex for us doesn't agree, and that's why there has to be a space that people can self-define, and that conversation we have to be with parents, and colleagues.
the transgender movement, still, is at the beginning, compared to how gay people began.
it's still a lot to do.
there must be some understanding.
there can be a space to ask and ask questions, and i hope all of you will be my allies.
kp: thank you very much. that was great. jc: thank you.
in many male and tribal societies, parents are usually defined as the percentage of their children, but i'm one of the few who know to their daughter, and i'm proud of this thing.
i started paying attention to education and defending their rights, in 2007, and when i was honored for their efforts in 2011, the national peace prize was becoming very famous in her country.
before all that, she was my daughter, but now, i'm her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at human history, the story of women is a dark story, inequality, violence and exploitation.
you see, in male societies, from the beginning, when a daughter is born, her birth is not celebrated.
and they're not welcome, whether they're mother or father.
the neighbors come in. they don't bless the dad.
mothers are very uncomfortable for her daughter's daughter.
when the first girl is born, the first daughter, mother is very sad.
when the second daughter is born, the mother is hit, and when she's expected to be born, she's born a third girl, she feels guilty as a criminal.
it's not just the mother who suffers, it's the girl, the newborn, when she grows up, who suffers too.
at five years old, when she has to be at school, the girl stays at home while her brothers go to school.
and up to 12 years old, in a way, lives a good life.
you can pass.
they can play with their friends on the streets, and move on the streets like a butter.
but when she becomes a teenager, when she enters her 13-year-old, stop leaving the house without facilities.
they're imprisoned between four walls in their home.
she's not an individual free anymore.
it becomes what's called honor by the honor of her father and brothers and family. and if you go beyond that honor, you might be killed.
and it's interesting that chronic honor code doesn't just affect the lives of a girl, it also affects the lives of boys in her family.
i know a family of seven sisters and one brothers, and that one brother, migrate to the bay countries, to make a living for his seven sisters and his father, because he thinks he's going to be a profession if you learn seven sisters and get out of the house to earn the living for themselves.
this brother, sacrificed his life and happy his sisters for what's called honor.
and there's another habit in male societies called volunteerism.
"good girl" should be very quiet and very modest and very good.
that's the standard.
good girl must be very quiet.
it's supposed to be silent, and it's supposed to break her father's decisions and her mother's older decisions, even if she doesn't like it.
if she's married to a man who doesn't like him or a older man, she has to accept it, because she doesn't want to see her as "non-profit."
if you marry at a very young age, you have to accept that.
otherwise they'll call them unpopular.
and what happens at the end
in the words of poetry, they're married, they're placed in bed and then there's more children and girls.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, she's going to learn the same octave lesson for her daughter and the same honor lesson for her children.
and this vicious cycle goes on and on.
ladies and gentlemen, we put millions of women in a different way if we think about women and men in a different way, if women and men in male and tribal societies in developed countries, if they could break down some of the habits of family and community, if they could abolish the racial laws of the systems in their own countries, which would tell us that they could actually break out.
oh my brothers and sisters, when i was born malala, and for the first time, believe me, i don't like newborn babies, i'd be honest with you, but when i looked in her eyes and believe me, i got a big honor.
and before she was born a long time ago, i thought about her name, and i was fascinated by a mythical argument in afghanistan.
her name was malay from mahai, and my daughter named her.
a few days after i was born, and my daughter was born -- my uncle came over -- and she happened to come home and bring the family tree, the yosavi family tree, looked at the tree, and i saw that she was tracking the history of 300 years of our ancestors.
but they were all men, and i picked up my pen, and i added a line of names, and i wrote "malala."
and when i grew up, it became four and a half years old, i recorded it at my school.
so you might ask, why do i remember recording it in a school
i have to mention this thing.
this may be something that's implicit in canada, in america and in many developed countries but in poor countries, in male and tribal communities, this thing is an important event in the lives of a girl.
to go to school means to know her identity and her name.
telling at school means it's entered the world of dreams and the world of finance where it can discover its underlying power in its future.
i have five sisters, none of them could go to school, but you'll be surprised. it's two weeks, when i was filling up the canadian request, when i was filling up the family section with demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason for that is that i've never seen in my life -- they're all written in a document.
that's why he invited me to appreciate my daughter.
the thing my father couldn't give my sisters, i thought i had to change.
i've always appreciated the intelligence and goodness that my daughter has.
i encouraged her to sit with me when my friends were coming.
i would encourage her to go with me to many meetings.
and all these good values, which i've been dumping into personality.
it's not just her. it's just boredom.
i've transferred all these good values for my students from girls and boys alike.
learning is used as a tool for editing.
i taught my students, i taught my girls from girls, not to learn to give up.
my students from the boys have taught me not to learn a lesson called fake honor.
my dear brothers and sisters, we were striving for extra rights for women and we were struggling to have more, more room for women in society.
but we had a new phenomenon.
it was a killer of human rights and particularly for women's rights.
it was called "demand."
that means completely excluded to women's participation in all political, economic and social activities.
hundreds of schools blew up.
girls prevented from going to school.
and women were forced to dress up and they were not allowed to go to markets.
the musicians were broken, the girls and the singers were born.
millions were suffering, but very few are the people who talked, and it was horrible to be surrounded by people like those who were killing and fighting, and being talking about your rights.
it was really the most horrible thing.
at the age of 10, i stood bored, i stood up for the right to education.
i wrote a note for the bbc, i volunteered themselves for documentaries of the new york times that i spoke on every platform i could talk about.
her voice was more powerful.
douwy had spread her voice all over the world.
and that's why the taliban's movement couldn't afford it, on october 9, 2012, got shot on their head soon.
it was like the day of my family and night.
the world turned into a big black hole.
when my baby was between life and death, i whispered into my wife's ear, "did i get what happened to my daughter and daughter"
but it suddenly said, "please don't hurt yourself.
i stood on the right side.
i put your life at stake for right, for peace, for education, your daughter was inspired by you and joined you.
both were on the right path and god would protect it. "
these few words meant a lot to me, and i didn't ask this question again.
when malala was in the hospital, she had a very mother-in-law measure, and she had a great headache because her facial nerve cut off, and i was seeing a shadow camping on my wife's face.
but my daughter didn't complain about it every day.
she was saying to us, "i'm doing fine with my wave smile and my nailing in my face.
i'll be fine, please don't worry. "
they were our enemy and our address, and they did our surveys.
my brothers and sisters, they taught us resilience in the most extreme commitments, and i'm glad to share with you that even though it's a symbol of the rights of a child and a woman, it's like any 16-year-old girl.
she cryes when she doesn't complete her homework.
she's looking at her brother, and i'm very happy about that.
people ask me, what's the special thing in my breeding that made it bold and very courageous that made it speak and be balanced
and i say, don't ask me what i did.
but ask me what i didn't do.
i didn't tell her wings. that's it.
thank you very much.
thank you. thank you very much. thank you.
i underwent brain surgery 15 years ago, and since then, brain surgery has become passionate for me.
i'm an engineer.
first of all, let me just say that i joined up recently to google earth at show in google x and surgical science that i'm going to talk about today is work before i joined google earth.
well, they say, there's a stigma there when you have a brain surgery.
are you still intelligent or not
and the answer is no, can you gain intelligence again
after my neurosurgery, i removed and i had to deal with that.
it wasn't part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was a deadly part of the matter that controls the hormones and main neurons.
right after the surgery, i had to decide how many drugs i had to take every day, and if i had to eat this material, i would die within hours.
every day, 15 years ago, every day i had to decide to build and mixture of chemicals, eat them, to survive.
you've had lots of hard decisions.
but fortunately, i'm passionate about experimentation, and so, i decided to try and find the best doses because there was no clear reference to that.
i started an experiment with mixes, and i was shocked to see how a simple change in the mixture is happening dramatically with my own sense of self, my thinking, my behavior of others.
one of the exciting situations: for two months, i actually tried a dosage and standardized drug experiment for a 20-year-old man and shocked how my ideas changed.
i've been angry all the time, and i've been thinking about sex constantly, and i'm also the smartest person ever, and i'm also -- -- -- and of course, over the years i've met somewhat young, or god at a little lower level than that thinking.
it was my extreme case.
but, what struck me, i wasn't trying to be a pessimist.
i was actually trying to be, with some feeling of losing safety, solving a problem i'm facing in front of me, but that didn't work.
so i couldn't afford it.
i've changed doses.
but, that experience, i think, has given me an appreciation for men and why it might have happened to them and also my understanding of men has become better since then.
what i've been trying to do is modify and balance hormones and neural transfers and things like trying to reclaim lost intelligence after disease and surgery, my creative ideas and delivery ideas.
and i'm often thinking through pictures, and even then my way to get these mental images that i'm using in prototypes, if you will, my thoughts, different ideas of scale, and the unusual experience.
this kind of thinking isn't new.
so philosophers like "huam" and "discarder" and "hobbes" saw that in a similar way.
all of them thought that mental images and ideas were the same.
and there are those who contradict that are currently contradicting, and many debates about how the brain works, but for me it's simple: the images, the majority of us, are essential to creative and creatively thinking.
so a few years later, i've balance myself and i've got many living mental images with a large level of elegance and psychological analysis of that.
and i'm actually working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to a computer screen faster
do you imagine, if you could, a filmmaker, she couldn't just use her imagination and bring it out in front of the world
or a musician who's able to make music out of a brain
these are amazing potential and a means of creators to signal their ideas at the speed of light.
and the truth is, despite the obstacles to do that, it extends perception of brain scanning systems.
so let me give you a reason why i think we're kind of close to this with your two recent experiences of two of the best neurotransmitters.
they're both using fmri and their functional mri technology to film the brain, and this is a picture of the brain in advance of georgia and his colleagues at harvard university.
in the left-hand pole, a brain image shows someone looking at a picture.
the middle ages show the brain scan of the same person imagining and seeing the same image.
and the column on the right produces the integration of the middle and the left, and it shows that the difference is barely infected.
many people have been rehearsed, and many different images, with the same conclusion, are always the same.
the difference between seeing an image and imagining the same image, barely there is no difference.
following, let me show you the other experiment, and it's introduced by the jacques gallon lab at ucla.
they could dismantle the brainwaves and turn them into a visual field that could be realized.
and let me introduce that to you.
in this experiment, people have been displayed hundreds of hours of video from a site while filming the brain activity to create a larger library of brain reactions to collect clusters.
then a new movie is displayed in new images, new people, different animals in it, and in the process it's being scanned again.
computer is only using scanning data and decoding that brain activity to show the actual imaginative image of people who are watching.
on the right-hand side, you see the computer analysis, and on the left-hand side, the real section.
the result is fascinating.
we're very close to doing that.
we just need better accuracy.
now, remember when you watch a picture versus imagine the same image, that gives the same brain the same scanner.
this was done using the best precision of brain scanning available now, and the accuracy of those scanners has actually evolved thousands of times over the last few years.
so we need a thousand times more accuracy to have a deeper portrait.
how do we do that
there are a lot of techniques to that.
one is, break up the skull and get electrodes directly.
i'm not saying that.
there's a lot of imaging techniques that have been shown, some of them are self-reported, but depending on the current mri success, first of all, we need to ask: is this the end of the way for this technology
the conventional wisdom says that the medium to get a greater accuracy is by a larger magnet that's only bigger than a magnet, but only by a larger size of the magnet that only provides some additional improvements of precision, not improving the amount of time that we want.
i'll give you an idea instead of a bigger magnet, let's make a better magnet.
there's a lot of techniques that are introduced in nanotechnology when they're applied to magnetic industry that's produced a new set of magnets. and with that technology, we can get very detailed and obvious magnetic fields in all parts of the brain, and in using that, we can have three-dimensional combinations of the brain.
we can create more complex constructions with very simple modification, kind of like the sprinkler breath.
so why is that important
many efforts in magnetic resonance in years have gone into the industry with bigger scale, very large sizes, right
yet many improvements in the accuracy of photography actually come from smart and creative solutions to analyzing frequencies in fm waves and receptors in mri systems.
also, instead of a unified magnet, we use a specific magnet, as well as the frequencies of the fm.
so, integrating magnets with radio waves and processing them that can dramatically increase the information that we can extract from one survey.
in addition, we can describe all of what we've learned about brain structure and memory to get a thousand times what we need.
and using fmri, we can measure not only the reflective blood flow, but the measure of the hormones and the neurotransmitters that i've talked about in the beginning, but also the direct neural activity, which is the dream.
a market can transfer our ideas directly to digital media.
can you imagine that we can transcend language and communicate directly through human ideas
what can we do then
and also how can we learn to really deal with human ideas that have not been filmed
you think the internet is big.
there are huge questions.
it may be a non-resistant way to amplify our ideas and the skills of our communication.
indeed, this same tool would lead to a cure for alzheimer's disease and similar diseases.
we have enough choices to open the door.
some look, a year ago, will this happen in 18 years
it's hard to imagine that it would take longer.
we need to learn how to do this step together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about going out, not as usual to hear, not about homosexuality.
i think we all have secrets.
it might be a secret to tell someone you love for the first time, or to tell someone that you're pregnant, or to tell someone that you have cancer, or to start any other difficult conversation we might have during our lifetime.
every talk about a secret, it's a hard talk, and although our subjects have been so different, it's that the experience of living and free from closing is a global experience.
it's scary and we hate it, but we have to do it.
some years ago, i was working in the southwest and girls caught up in the city, and during my work, i was talking very hard to the feminine struggle: i don't have a backpack of "i'm david francisco" songs.
and according to the sabbath of my short-term cabinet and how recently i've been riding my head, the question is often about me, usually by a little kid: "are you a boy or a girl"
and there's going to be an embarrassing silence at the table.
a little bit more jaw-dropping, holding the coffee pot by getting a little more revenge.
parents move their newspaper in a confusing way, and mom releases a look at her child's children feeling forever.
but i don't say anything, and i keep being intrinsically interested.
i arrived at a point where every time i walked to a table with a three- to 10-year-old child, i was ready to fight.
and this is a terrible feeling.
so i promised myself, next time i would say something.
and i'm going to take that hard discussion.
so, within weeks, it happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
silence is familiar, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all the women's dominant studies at this table. i have a quote by betty fred.
i have a quote from gloria steinem.
i even have a few clips from vagina monogues to perform them.
so i took a deep breath, and i looked down and i looked down at my face and she was a four-year-old girl in a rose dress, not a challenge for feminism, just a child with a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another deep breath, and i sat a dead body down next to it, and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of confusing.
short hair like a boy, and i wear a boy's clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear pink dresses, and sometimes you want to wear your comfortable sleeping clothes
well, i'm the kind of girl who's shattered more in comfortable sleeping clothes. "
and she looked at me carefully, without any difficulty, and she said, "my favorite sleeping clothes are the purple with the fish.
can i get a pies, please "
and so it was. just, "oh, well, you're a girl.
what about that pies "
the easiest difficult conversation i ever had.
and why because the fungus girl and i, we were both true with each other.
so like many of us, i lived in a few tanks in my life, and yes, most of the time, my walls happened to be a rainbow.
but inside, in the dark, you can't tell what color these walls are.
you only know what you feel in a closet.
so really, my clothing cabinet is not different than you or you or you.
of course, i'm going to give you 100 reasons why my experience was harder than your experiences, but here's the link: a word that's not relatively difficult.
it's difficult.
who can tell me to explain to someone that you declared your breakthrough is harder to tell someone you just deceived
who can tell me the story is harder than telling your five year-old child that you're heading towards divorce
there's nothing harder, it's just hard.
we need to stop our problems with other people's problems in order to mitigate ourselves or increase the burden of our problems and inherit the similar fact that we all suffer from difficulties.
at some point in our lives, we all live in tanks, which might feel safe, or at least safer than behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter what you're made of, the closet is not a place to live in.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
for me, i had a horse like the horseshoe, and a bosnian and shoes and a high heel.
i wasn't that hypnotic that i was ready to fight with any four-year-old who comes to the cafeteria.
i was freezing from fear, pumped at the corner of my stone, the black knife held by the homosexuality bomb, and the footing of any movement was the most horrible thing i'd ever done.
my family and friends and strangers -- i've spent all of my life trying to satisfy them and not disappoint them, and now i'm turning things on its head.
i've been burning the scenario pages that we've long hinted for a long time, so if you don't get away with that bomb, it's going to wipe you up.
one of the most living memories of the bombs was at my sister's marriage.
this was the first time i had a large number to know that i was gay, and as i was doing my guest duty, in my black dress and my high players, i was wandering around tables and then i stopped a hero that my parents sat on, people who had known me for years.
shortly after, a woman screamed, "i love nathan len!"
and then a war compared to homosexuality.
"oh, have you ever been to castro"
"well, yeah, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we haven't been there before, but we've heard it's amazing."
"uh, you know anthonymous
he's a really good guy and he never talked about his girlfriend. "
"ash, what's your favorite tv show
our favorite show: will and grace.
and you know who we love jack.
jack is our favorite. "
and then one of the women, tied up, but she wanted to show her support, and i thought she'd stand in my class, and at the end she said, "well, sometimes my husband's wearing a lonely t-shirt."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody was throwing their bombs.
i could go back to my girlfriend and to my beloved homosexual table and to shake their response, punish them on their naive and defy them by jumping through the homosexuals that i brought with me, or i could empathize with them and notice that maybe that was one of the hardest things they did, that began to replace that discussion
of course, it was easy to point out how they felt.
they're much more difficult to admit the fact that they were trying.
and what could someone be advised not to try
if you're aiming to honesty with somebody, you have to be willing to have the other way around.
so sharp conversations are still not my strength.
ask anybody i promised.
but i get better, and i follow what i like to call the three principles of the girl.
now, please look at this through somebody's perspective like me, but you know what it takes to go out and basically it's the same thing.
number one: be authentic.
take the shield. be yourself.
the kid in the cafe didn't hold a arm, but i was ready for the battle.
if you want someone to be honest with you, they need to know that you're playing with you too.
number two: be clear. just say it. break the barriers.
if you're gay, admit it.
if you told your parents that you might be gay, they would have the hope that they would change that.
don't give them that sense of false hopes.
number three, and most importantly -- don't apologize.
you tell your truth.
don't apologize to that at all.
some may hurt along the way, so, apologize for your actions, but never apologize for who you are.
actually, some might be disappointed at you, but that's about them, not about you.
this is their own expectations around you, not your expectations.
that's their story, not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you wanted to write.
so the next time you find yourself in the cabinet, you've got blacks holding your bomb, i know we've all been there before.
you may feel so lonely, but you're not.
we know that's hard, but we need you here, no matter what walls have been made, because i guarantee you that there are others staring through their keys looking into the courageous soul to open the door, so be that person and show the world that we are larger than our tanks and that cabin is not a place where people can live.
thank you, boulder. enjoy your evening.
interesting -- what is it
if we look at the evolution of the perspective of intelligence, one of the first examples was the famous quote of editing demographic: "the question of whether a machine can think as well as whether a submarine can swim."
now, the dawn of descartes, when he wrote this, he meant it was a suit for the early computer scientists, like alan turing.
but, if you look back, and you think about what is the most empowering innovation that has enabled us to build artificial machines that swim and artificial machines that fly, you find that just by understanding the underlying physics mechanisms in swimming and flying, we've been able to build these machines.
and so, a few years ago, i started a program to try to understand the basic physics mechanisms of intelligence.
let's step back.
let's first start with an intellectual experiment.
imagine that you're an alien sex that doesn't know anything about the biology on earth or the neuroscience on earth or the intelligence on earth, but you have wonderful telescopes that you're able to watch the earth, and you have very long life, that you're able to watch the earth over millions, but billions of years.
and i've seen a really strange effect.
i've seen, during the millennia, the earth is constantly beaten up by asteroids until some point, and this is about a period of time, indicating about 2,000 bc, the asteroids that hit the earth that are supposed to collide with are wrecked or blown before they hit earth.
now of course, as the earth, we know why we might try to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent collision.
but if you're an alien sex who doesn't know any of this, and doesn't have any concept of earth's intelligence, you're forced to create a physical theory that explains how, until a certain point in time, asteroids that are degrading the surface of a planet have vaguely stopped doing that.
so i claim that this is the same question in understanding the physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program that i funded a few years ago, i looked at a variety of subjects in science, and in many domains, which i think were referring, to a latent, single, intelligent mechanism.
in cosmology, for example, there have been many different topics that are indicating that our universe seems to be super-resolution-driven to develop intelligence, and in particular, to develop cosmic conditions that increase to the maximum diversity of potential future time.
in games, for example, in the odor game -- everybody remembers in 1997 when deep blue that ibm kasparov made in chess -- a few people realize that in the last 10 years, in a game, it's said it's a much more challenging game because it's got a much more branching agent, too, i
they're technologies that are trying to increase future choices to as much as possible through play.
after all, in motor planning, there's a lot of new technologies that are trying to exploit robotic abilities to increase the freedom of behavior to the limitations of complex tasks.
and so, by taking all these topics and putting them together, i wondered, a few years ago, is there a underlying technology for intelligence that we can isolate from all these different topics
is there a single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yes. ["f."] what you're seeing is probably the closest to e.
so what you're seeing here is a consensus that intelligence is forced, f, which is increasing the freedom of the future to the highest limit.
it's increasing the freedom of future actions to the extreme borders, or keeping choices available, using some t, with the diversity of future time possible, s, even the horizon of future time, tao.
in short, intelligence doesn't like to be inspected.
so intelligence loves the freedom of future action to maximum boundaries and to keep choices open.
and so, having this one equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
how predictable is it
does it predict human intelligence
do you predict artificial intelligence
so i'm going to show you a video now that, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this single equation.
narrator: recent research in cosmology suggests that the universes that produce more chaos, or the entropy, during their lifetime, must tend to have more conditions than the existence of intelligent beings as our own.
but what if this universal relationship between entropy and intelligence refers to a deeper relationship
what if intelligent behavior isn't just about producing long-term entropy, but actually emerging directly from it
to find out, we've developed a software engine called entropy, designed to increase the long-term entropy production of any system that he finds himself in.
indeed, antarctica was able to succeed in several animal intelligence tests, in playing human games, and even in making money by stock transactions, all without giving them instructions to do it.
these are some examples of entropy actually.
just as a person standing upright without falling, here you see an entropy equivalent to a stick figure using a cart.
this behavior is partly exceptional because we never gave entropy a goal.
he decided to balance the stick.
this ability to balance will have applications in human robots and in technology to help humans.
just as animals use things in their environment as tools to get to the narrow spaces, here we see antarctica, again with their individual initiatives, being able to move a big disk to another place to make a small disk, an instrument, up to a small space where there's a third disk and edit from the original position.
this tool uses an ability that will have applications in industry and in intelligent agriculture.
also, just like other animals that are able to collaborate to pull down the rope end at the same time to release the food, here we see that entropy can do a typical version of that task.
this ability to collaborate is an interesting application for economic planning and many other areas.
europeica has large applications in many domains.
for example, here we see it playing pong's success against itself, showing its ability to play.
here we're seeing entropy configuration of new connections on a social networking network where friends constantly cut off and maintain the success of good connectivity to the network.
this ability to synthesize networks is also applications in health care, energy, intelligence.
here we see antarctica running longer trajectories of ships, exploring successfully and using the panama canal from the atlantic ocean to the pacific.
using the model itself, antarctica has large uses of problems with self-defense, logistics and transportation.
finally, we're seeing an entropy discovering spontaneously and implementing a cheap-free plan, at a high price in the market of the simulated financial papers, and increases the possibilities that they run very successfully.
this ability to organize risk will have broad applications in economics and insurance.
alex weiser-jer: so what you've just seen is that a group of intelligent human cognitive behaviors like tools and walking in a format and social collaboration are all following one equation, which is driving a system to increase its freedom in future action to maximize boundaries.
now, there's a deep irony here.
going back to the beginning there was always the notion that if we developed robotic intelligence, there would be a mechanical revolution.
the mechanisms will be rebelled against us.
one of the major consequences of this work is that perhaps all of these decades, we had the opposite of the automatic revolution.
it's not that machines get smart at the beginning and then they get crazy and they try to control the world.
it's quite the opposite, that the tendency to control all future time and future time is a more fundamental principle than the principle of intelligence, that public intelligence can actually emerge directly from control, rather than the other way around.
another important punishment is the search for purpose.
i'm often asking, how do you explain the ability to look for goals in this framework
and the answer is, the ability to look for goals that can be explained directly from this: as you go through a tunnel, a bottle in your future space, in order to achieve many other targets later, or as you invest in financial guaranteedness, reduce your short-term resilience in order to increase your wealth in the long run, to search for the future, to invest in
it's about a long-term motivation to increase the freedom of your future.
and finally, richard feynman, a well-known physicist, wrote that if human civilization destroyed and were able to give only one principle for our grandchildren to help them rebuild civilization, that principle must have all of the material around us made out of small elements that attract each other when you move away, but when you get closer, when you get closer, when you get closer to
my version of this quote is to give our grandchildren to help them build artificial intelligence or to help them understand human intelligence, is this: intelligence has to look at as a physical process that is trying to increase the freedom of future behavior into the highest limitations of its future.
thank you very much.