i'm going to talk to you today about 30 years of engineering history.
this is a very big thing for the privatization of 18 minutes.
it's a complicated subject, so we're going straight to a complicated place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i was from new jersey, i was six years old, and i was living there with my parents in a town called lingovanson, and this was my bedroom.
at the corner of my room, there was a bathroom with my sister.
and with my room and the shower, there was a balcony over the living room.
and that's where everybody was gathering to watch tv, so every time i went from my room to the bathroom, everybody was seeing me, and every time i bathed and took my gothic profile, everybody was seeing me.
i looked like this.
i was feeling weird, unsafe, and i hated that feeling.
i hated that walk, that balcony, i hated that room, that house.
and that's architecture.
it's finished.
that feeling, that feeling, that feeling that i feel, is the power of architecture, because architecture is not mathematics and subtraction. it is those charged sensory intersections that we sense in places that we operate.
it's no stranger that we feel that way, because by the environmental protection agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
we mean 90 percent of our time is surrounded by engineering.
that's a huge thing.
which means that engineering determines who we are in ways we didn't even know.
what makes us naive is something, and it can be predicted very easily.
that means that when i show you a building like this, i know what you're going to think: you're going to think about power and stability and democracy.
and i know you're thinking that way because it's based on a building established 2500 cents from the greeks.
this is the trick.
this is the motivator that engineers use to create you have that emotional connection with the forms that plants build.
it's a predictable emotional connection, and we've been using it for a very long time.
we used it 200 years ago to build the icon.
we used it in the 19th century to build art museums.
and in the 20th century, in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young, stable soldiers, surrounded by ocean-basin-wide risk-taking.
this is a very useful thing, because building things is terrifying.
it's expensive, it takes a long time, it's very complicated.
and the people who build these things -- developers and governments -- are naturally afraid of innovation, and you'd better use them just those shapes that you know you're going to respond to.
so we're finally getting data like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is a library of psychoanalyzing the public that was finished in 2004 in my hometown, and it has, you know, in it and it's got this circular thing, it's columns, it's red, and you can guess what you're trying to say in this building: kids, property values and history
but it has no similarities to what libraries are doing today.
in that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, then finished building another library. it looked like this.
in seattle.
this library is about how we consume media in digital time.
they form a kind of public immunity for the city, a place to gather and to read and share opinions.
so how is it possible that in the same year, in the same country, botanical, both bureaian, two very different ways
and the answer is that engineering works in terms of clock.
on the one hand we find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing to the direction of building new technologies, studying new symbols, new solutions for how we live today.
that is, we pay and push and make you click.
we wear black clothes, we write down, and they think we're crazy, and we die in our insides because after all, we have no other option.
we have to go the other side to share that again, the symbols that you know you love.
you do this and you become happy, you feel like it's his life, and then you start testing it back and forth and back and forth and back and forth over the last 300 years, and certainly over the last 30 years.
thirty years ago, we just came out of the 1970s.
the engineers were then busy choosing something called brutal architecture.
it's got a lot of connection to concrete.
you can guess that.
small windows, humanitarian scales.
this is a very difficult thing.
so we got closer to the 1980s, and we started to share these symbols.
the real punishment is pushing the other side.
take the forms that you know you love them and you talk them.
we add the illinois and we add the baseline and we use new materials.
so i love it.
you can't do it well enough.
we take english cabinets and turn them into skyscrapers, so they can be glasses of middle ages.
the scale got bigger, it got more contaminated and more severe.
i'm a pygmies-sized pygmies.
the retailer is becoming the size of the buildings.
that was crazy.
but in the '80s, it's great.
we all meet in commercial communities and we all move around to live in the suburbs, and there, in the suburbs, we can create geometric imaginations.
and these mountains can be medium or french or italian.
maybe it has infinite charity.
this is the post-docs idea.
that's the idea that's going on with symbols.
they're easy, cheap, because instead of building a place, we're creating memories of where it is.
because i know, and i know you all know, this is not my empire.
it's ohio.
so engineers are worried, so we start redefining the clock on the other side.
at the end of the '80s and early' 90s, we started to select what we call the destruction movement of the destruction.
we started by throwing historical symbols away, and we relying on new design technologies that are supported by computers, and we came up with a bunch of new structures, from servers to shapes.
these are academic and difficult things, not completely crazy. we're very good at it.
the real estate is marching out alone to go back to the other side.
and then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is the guggenheim tila of frankie's engineer.
and this building has radically changed the relationship of the world with engineering.
paul burger said that bilbao was one of those big brands of difference when criticism and academics were taking full public goods about a building.
new york times considered this building as a miracle.
was a swimming pool in bilbao by 2500 percent when it's finished from this building.
all of a sudden, everybody wanted one of these data: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, cleveland, sergio springfield.
everybody wanted a similar building, and my hary became scouring everywhere.
he's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how can these shapes -- the unit and the traditional -- how can they be all over the world
this happened because the media was so successful at teaching us quickly that these shapes meant culture and tourism.
so we created an emotional response to these shapes.
and every mayor of the world has done so.
so every mayor knows that if they have a city like this, they have culture and tourism.
this phenomenon is happening with the beginning of the new millennium of some other star engineers.
he had with her opinion of licensing, and what happened with this little elite of engineers with the beginning of the millennium development was to begin to impact the field of engineering as a whole, where digital media began to increase the speed that information consumed.
think about how you're consuming engineering.
1,000 years ago, you had to walk into the neighboring village to see a building.
the speed of transportation is getting bigger: you can sail in a ship, you can take a plane, you can be a driver.
technology speed: we can see it in the newspaper, or on tv, at the end of the day, we are all photographers, and the building spirit has been liberated from the site.
engineering is everywhere now, and that means that the speed of communication has finally been achieved at the speed of engineering.
because engineering is moving pretty fast.
you don't need to think about designing a long, long time.
it's about taking a long time, three or four years to build, and at that time it's going to be designed by designer or eight or 100 buildings before we know whether the building has been made for four years or not.
that's not in engineering, it's in a feedback loop.
so we end up with data like this.
it's not just the brutal architecture movement, and it's a 20-year-old movement.
twenty years ago, we were going out on data like this because we didn't know how much you hated it.
it's not going to happen again, i think, because we live on the edge of one of the greatest engineering revolutions since the invention of concrete, iron, or elevator, and what has been haunted by the media revolution.
so my theory is that when you apply media to rubble at watch, it starts to move faster and faster, until you get to the farthest side effectively, and this really is really the difference between creativity and symbols, between each other, between engineers, between you and the public.
we can now create emotion-locked symbols that are almost emotionally charged from something completely new.
let me show you how this works from a project that i just finished my company.
and then we brought him up to dive into this building that was demolished.
this is a city center called dr. vanilla in van ireland in new york.
they're a tourist collection.
we proposed a building that was about courage, which was different from all the data that the residents used to come back, and we were afraid our clients were scared, and we created a series of real-time perceptions of settings and put them on facebook and put them on instagram, and we let people start doing what they do: share, comment them, and fake them, and
but that meant that, two years before the building was finished, the building was already part of the community, and when the settings seemed to be exactly identical to the final product, there would be no surprises.
this building was already part of the community, and then in the first summer, when people started to share windows and share images of building on social media, it's not just building it anymore; it's becoming a media, because this is not just pictures of building, it's your pictures of this building.
and when you use it to tell your story, it becomes part of your narrative, and what you do is you bring the road to our collective memory, and you create these emotional symbols that are imprinted for us to understand.
that means we don't need greeks to fill our minds with engineering.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media not only changes our relationship to each other, but also also how we relate to data.
think for a moment in librarians there in livestock.
if that building was going to be built today, the first thing they were going to do was go online and find "new libraries."
you will be surprised by the choices, the ideas, the creativity, and think more deeply about what the library is.
that's nugget.
that's the narcissistic one you can take with them to mayor of venton, and for people to mentor, there's no single definition of what the library is today.
but let's be part of this.
the experiments are so much more likely to give them freedom to do their tests.
everything is different now.
the engineers no longer use the words "shit" and the painters "and no longer return on that audience, that customer who's never killed anything that we've never seen before.
engineers listen to you, and you're not afraid of engineering.
that means that ribcage of the clock that swings forward and backwards from one way to another, from one movement to the other, has no meaning.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions to the problems that our society faces.
that's the end of the history of engineering, and that means that tomorrow's data will look a lot different from today's data.
which means that the old city public spaces can be unique and designed for the way that a modern city works.
which means that our playground in brooklyn could be playful there, not be a red history, as we think it would be a playground.
that means that robots will build our daughter, because we're finally ready to understand what forms we're going to produce.
it also means that the buildings are going to be symmetrical with the vibration of nature, not the opposite.
that means that times in miami pepss in florida, it can be a place for sports and for kindness and you can also get out there late at night.
that means that three swimming engineers in the east river, gather about half a million dollars together, who collected their case, didn't even have one customer.
that means there's no smaller building than there is to create, like this little baby pavilion, it's powerful and wobby as the animals that are designed to monitor.
and this meant not that one would be beautiful to be crazy, like this little ugly building in spain, where the engineers drilled in a hole, and they filled it with a bow, and when they cut the cement around it, they invited somebody to come and clean a bow until they remain this little, full of cubic rooms and molded out of it.
it became one of the most magical places to watch spanish.
because it doesn't matter whether it's a cow from our data or a robot from our building.
it doesn't matter how i build, what matters what i'm building.
engineers already know how to build green plants that are smarter and easier to use.
we were just waiting for all of you to admire it.
and finally, it's never been the other side.
take an engineer, i use an engineer, i work with us to design better data, better cities, and it's a better world, because the standards are high.
not reflecting data in our society, but determining its knowledge through the most basic space: local libraries, the houses in which we raise our children, and the corridor that they take from the bedroom to the bathroom.
thank you.
this is my niece senegal.
i just turned six and started walking.
and she walks in that wonderful way as all the kids in their first year where they're going to go.
it's absolutely fascinating.
and one of the things that is most favorite of all is to stare at herself in the mirror.
it certainly has to reflect it in the mirror.
and you laugh and you trust and kill yourself these big, wet kisses.
it's a beautiful thing.
and she looks like all her friends do this, and my mother told me i was doing this too, and that's why i was thinking when i stopped doing this
when did we suddenly become uncomfortable with our appearance
because obviously we don't like to look at it.
every month, we look at 10,000 people on google, "am i ugly"
this is a 13-year-old fiber living in denver.
and like any teenager, we want to be crazy and acceptable.
it's a sunday night.
and she gets ready for school next week.
she's a little scared and confused because even though her mother tells her all the time she's beautiful every day at school, someone tells her she's ugly.
and because of the difference between what her parents say, what her read in school, we don't know who they are.
so we shoot a video of herself and we put it on youtube and we ask people to write a comment, "am i beautiful or ugly"
ok, so far, i've got 13,000 comments.
some of the comments were so disgusted, they didn't even bother thinking about it.
this is a teenage girl with a normal health appearance that receives rudders like this in the most vulnerable times of her life.
thousands of people spread videos like this, most teenage girls communicate this way.
but what did he do
well teenagers these days are rarely alone.
they love stress to be on the web all the time, talking, sending messages and wondering.
and they get stuck, they get involved, and that never ends. we've never been there before, if we're in this kind of constant, instant, instant, instantaneous, age.
and as one of the mothers told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
there is simply no privacy.
and the social pressures that are associated with this are cruel.
this environment of continuous connectivity to our children is training to value themselves according to how many of the likes they get and the kinds of comments they receive.
there is no separation of life online and life out.
it's hard to recognize what is real and what is fake.
and it's also very hard to distinguish between what is original and what is digitally manipulated.
what's the important event versus the everyday events
where are they looking for inspiration
to see what kind of images we fill in the news sources of girls these days.
parents' nurses are very imaginative, and they're making platforms.
a round of us used to re-detect facial features, and we became seeing hawkings about the dry.
it's about the space between the rats.
and with coordinates that encourage loss of appetite.
these trends are observed with a physical view of women in the public culture.
it's not hard to figure out what girls compare to themselves.
but kids aren't special about this either.
you see them as the broad jaws and the dead muscles like sports and singers, but what's the problem with all of this
of course we want our kids to be raised as disabled, but a culture that's obsessed with shape, we show them.
by spending time and effort looking at their appearance as their social relationships and their physical skills.
they get their education, which starts with the seeds.
six out of 10 girls choose not to do a job, thinking they're not good enough.
we're not talking about high-power activities, we're not talking about high-power activities, we're talking about people, we're not talking about one in two teenagers.
they're not involved because they don't want to be.
i picked attention to their appearance of one in five, and i gave up school when we're not satisfied, let's talk about choices when you think you're not looking so good.
es particular, if you think you're not an agile.
your desk will be below your classrooms.
those of you who don't worry about this are broadcasting in finland, the united states and china, and regardless of your real weight.
and to explain it more, we're talking about it.
your belief about your doubt, not your real question.
without trust, you lower the level of education, you destroy health, when you decrease the trust of teenage people, it exercises less, and it eats less fruit and vegetables.
and we're doing unhealthy food protections.
it leads to eating disorders and it goes down and it has self-worth.
and that makes it even more effective for other people's opinions and it's vulnerable to depression, and all of these things make them more alcoholic and drug abuse.
and unhealthy foods and loads and engaging in sexual and sexual acts and harmony themselves.
the pursuit of the perfect body also drains hospitals.
our governments cost billions of dollars every year and not stop it for women who think they're obese.
no matter whether they're already working harder to run a job interview a day when they don't feel trusted.
let's think about how powerful this is for our economy.
and what would you like to overcome us with this
but how do we do that
talk alone about problems.
it's not enough to solve them.
if we want to make a difference, we have to do something.
there are three ways to create change, the first of which is important to trust, is to teach teenagers.
how to overcome the appearance of the appearance pressure is perfectly how they build their own self-esteem.
it's good to have programs that mean right now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come in with the right results, and it was shocked when i realized that a lot of these good programs were being done.
we want to make sure that our children don't get software that doesn't leave positive traces.
it's always left an effect, and studies have shown that the best quality software has been addressing basic aspects.
the first was family effect and friends, and relationships that we have the impact of the media and celebrity, and the peer-reviewed consent, how we discuss and compare ourselves to others based on our forms and talk about appearance and self-esteem.
this is the key to anyone who's seriously educated and trustworthy.
education and quality is very important, but this problem requires every initiative to be a good role model for women and girls close to it.
and it challenges the reality that women show in our societies.
we should not be governed by the price version or the chest grade, or we should expect the success of the game as an olympic, because it doesn't manage its beauty.
we have to see people doing their own things.
we need to look at the kinds of images we're creating and comments we write in social networks.
we need to build on people to the efforts they dispose of and businesses they have made, not their shapes.
let me ask you when was the last time you had a mirror
and finally, we have to work together as communities, governments, businesses, businessmen to change this culture, to show our kids to appreciate their self, respect for individuality, difference, belonging.
we need to show people who are active in the community as the tools of people who are different in the world.
and when we do that, then we can make change.
we want to create a world where our children feel free to be the best they can, where they consider them to be, don't really think of them, what they want to do or achieve what they want in life.
think about what this will mean for a living.
who has ever had to come up with you
is it your wife
i love you
your daughter
woman: a friction
your friend or maybe the woman who is away from you are two.
what would it mean to try out that critical sound inside of it, that it worries them to make her livestock longer, or her trunks thinner or her feet smaller
what would it mean for her to overcome this and set off for her potential for that
today, our culture is obsessed with the picture that we have of progress.
but let's see our kids who are real.
let's show them that their appearance is just one part of their identity and that we love them for their self and their actions and for the feelings that we feel.
let's combine self-worth in our school curriculum.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to other people.
let's work together as communities of roots to governments to make children happy today, to make sure that i believe in themselves.
let's do that.
on the fifth of twitter, 1990, a man named mr. begging into a hotel in manhattan and killing the rabbi kahn, chief of jewish defense.
he was not convicted of murder, but when he was spending a time with a lighter prisoner's time, he was planning a style of other men's attacks on tens of sites in new york city, including spending and temples and headquarters of the united nations.
fortunately, these plans were mapped by the fbi.
unfortunately, it bombarded 1993 for the world trade center did not land.
he was convicted ultimately become involved in the process.
mr. insisted that he was my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, in pennsylvania, 1983, an egyptian architect, and from a loving american mother, was a primary school teacher, and he was together with everything that they could to make me live a happy childhood.
i have my seven-year-old vision, and our family has been changing.
when my father showed me on the side of islam a few people, including the majority of muslims, they would not see him.
my own experience is that when people take time to connect with each other, it doesn't take enough to realize that in total, we all want to do the same things in life.
but in each religion, in every religion, in every society, you will find a few people who are enthusiastic about their beliefs that they feel that they have to use all the means to hold others to live as they do.
a few months before he arrested, sat me down and explained to me that over the course of the last weeks, he and some of his friends were going to have time exercises in long island for the bullying goals.
and he said i would censor the next morning.
we got to the fields of time like the vertebrate, which was, without the knowledge of our group, monitoring by the fbi.
when my role came to shoot, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explain to me how i should target a target 30 yards away.
that day, i had another bullet that was launched by a little orange light that was on top of the target and what was surprising to all of us, especially for me, was that the whole goal had exploded.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and arabic said, "where is his son."
that's the way that lion is.
and apparently they exploded laughs at this comment, but it took a couple of years to understand exactly what they thought was funny.
they thought they saw the same destruction that my father was able to do.
these guys were convicted at the end of a little setting of 1,500-pound trucks of explosives on the underground floor of a north tower parking lot for the world trade center, elderly elderly trigger led to the murderer of six people and more than 1,000.
these guys were my role models.
these were the people who called them "blind," which means "blind."
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, not to stabilize that during my childhood, really not given me the chance to find older friends.
every time i start feeling comfortable to someone, it's a period that has to bring our bags to move to the next city.
and being the new student in the class, i often was vulnerable.
i was hiding my colleagues in the classroom to avoid my target, but it turned out, being the new boy and the new shaman in the class, was a good, ridiculous amputation.
so most of the time, i would spend my day looking at books and watching television or playing video games.
and for those reasons, i was lacking social skills, at the least estimate, and growing up in a stable home, and i couldn't prepare for the real world.
i got judged by people based on arbitrary scales, like race or religion.
so what opened my eyes
one of my first experiences that was happening in my thinking was during the 2000 presidential election.
during my university program i was a member of the national board of young people in philadelphia.
my own group was about youth violence, and being a victim of the harassment of most of my life, this was a subject that i was particularly excited about.
the members of the whole life trajectory were members.
one day, at the end of the council, i discovered that one of the children i had encountered was jewish.
now, it took me several days to show these details on the surface, and i realized there was no natural food between us and both.
i had no jewish friend before, and frankly i felt proud that i could overcome a hurdle i had been served my whole life by believing that it was impossible to overcome.
a big recent transformation point when i found a guest worker at bush meadow, a cabinet garden.
there, i met with people from all sorts of beliefs and cultures, and it turns out that that experience was essential to the evolution of my personality.
for most of my life, i've been told that homosexuality is religious, and therefore, all gay people have a negative impact.
and it happened, if i had the opportunity to work with acting actors in a show there, then i found out that some of them were kind, and some people were the least judged of the other.
being a child, i had been a child, creating value in a kind of empathy that was suffering from others, and it seems unusual to me to treat nice people in any other way other than what i would like to deal with.
and thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a kid with real life experience and dealing with people.
i don't know what it means to be gay, but i know what it means to be arrested for something outside of my will.
then the "dylie sue."
so john stewart was telling me, every night i had to be honest with myself about my disability and helped me realize that it had nothing to do with race or bears or or or or or or sexually guidance with a personality.
sometimes it was a personalization for me when i was in yesterday the need for the father.
inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and being a jewish comedian has done a lot to make a research on my view of the world more than my parents did, and i don't have to lose that for me.
one day, i was talking to my mother about how my worldview was changing, and she said something i would always carry in my heart as long as i was gone.
she looked at me with two tired eyes of free-storming storage in his life, and she said, "i've been tired of hatred."
at that moment, i realized how much negative energy you required to carry that hatred in you.
brit abraham is not my real name.
his language is where my family decided to cut off my father and start a new life.
so why did i go out into public and put myself in a potentially dangerous situation
well, it's simple.
i do this hope that maybe someone is forced to use violence maybe listen to my story and realize that there is a better way, that if you are vulnerable to that violence, and ideology that is not allowed, it is not upset.
instead, i chose to use my experience to fight against terrorism, against prejudice.
i do this for the victims of terrorism and their loved ones, pain and loss of the pill they forced terrorism to live.
the victims of terrorism, i'm going to speak out loud against these craftsmen and my father's religion.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not a single dungeon or a race, and it should not follow his father's fault.
i'm not my father.
thank you. thank you, all of you. thank you, all of you. thank you very much.
now, you have a film that's shown in your head.
it's a wonderful multi-touch film.
and it's shown in 3d and the technology of the ocean sound of what we're seeing and hearing now, but this is just self-replicating.
your mouth has smell, taste, touch.
it has a sense of your body, your place, your hunger, your hunger.
it has emotions, of anger and happiness.
and it has memories, like a view of your childhood, are being turned on in front of you.
and this is an constant, unconscious comment that keeps on going through your conscious thinking.
and at the heart of this film you're testing all this directly.
this film is your own consciousness stream, the subject of the experience of mind and the world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental realities of human existence.
each of us is conscious.
we all have an inner movie, you and you too.
there's nothing we know a lot about directly.
at least, i know about my consciousness directly.
i can't be sure you're conscious.
and consciousness also makes life worthwhile.
if we're not conscious, we're not going to be able to make anything in our lives meaning or value.
but at the same time, consciousness is one of the most mysterious phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these underlying films
why are we not just robots treating all of these inputs, and producing all these outputs, without choosing this inner film at all
now nobody has answers to these questions.
i would suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is subjective inherently.
consciousness is inherently self-interest.
that's why there can't be science of consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century, this was the dominant view.
psychologists studied objectively, and neuroscientists studied objectivity, and nobody even remembered consciousness.
even 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little scientific research about consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, this is all starting to change.
neuroscientists like francis crick and physicists like roger porridge have said it's time for science to study consciousness.
and since then, there has been a real explosion, a flourishing for scientific research around consciousness.
and this was great. it was remarkable.
but it has some key constraints so far.
the hub of consciousness in recent years was to look for mutual relationships, interrelated relationships between certain areas of the brain and certain areas of consciousness.
we've seen some of this kind of work from nancy kapotter and the wonderful work i've given you a few minutes ago.
now we understand much better, for example, the kinds of brain regions that are going on with the conscious experience of face or pain or happiness.
but that remains the science of mutual relationships.
it's not explanation.
we know that these areas of the brain are in a cohesion with certain kinds of conscious experience, but we don't know why they're going to fit.
i'd like to illustrate this by saying that this kind of work in neuroscience is based on some of the questions that we want to answer about consciousness, questions about what some of the brain regions do and they're linked.
but in a way, these are the easy problems.
neurologists have no criticism.
there's really no such thing as easy to do with problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't take the real mystery at the point of this: why should all the physical processing in the brain have the physical in mind
why is there this inner self-portrait film
now, we don't have anything to explain that.
you might say, let's just give neuroscience a few years.
and it would take for another emerging phenomenon like traffic congestion, like torture, like life as well, and we'd find a solution for it.
the classic e.t. cases are all cases of emerging behavior, how traffic congestion behaves, how a hurricane works, how a living organism breeds and adapts and eggs, all questions about objective work.
you can apply that to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human brain functions as emergent phenomena: how to walk, how to talk, how to play chess, all of these questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, questions become the question of attitudes among easy problems.
when it comes to hard problem, the question becomes, why is this behavior so loudly accompanied by self-stimulation
and here, the standard model of evolution, even the standard model of neuroscience, doesn't really have much to say.
now, i'm a scientific person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, and for a long time, i've gone through the wall looking for a theory of consciousness in terms of static physical terms that may work.
but eventually it came to the conclusion that it didn't just work for systemic reasons.
and that's a long story, but the basic idea is that what we get from recent explanations with physical terms, and terms of brain depending on, are stories of how the system works; it's dynamics, and the dynamics that it produces, and it's great for solving easy problems how we behave, how we work, but when it comes
this is something completely new, and this is always another question.
so i think we're kind of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're familiar with that, but the physics of chemistry, the interpretation of chemistry, the interpretation of biology, parts of psychology.
but consciousness doesn't seem to fit in this picture.
on the one hand, it's muslim that we are conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to be in our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness is now a kind of a shocking situation, and it's kind of a we need to integrate into our vision of the world, but we don't see how that's done yet.
in the face of anomalies like this, there might be a need for radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that looks crazy at the beginning before we can deal with consciousness science.
now, there are a few pillars of what these crazy ideas might be.
my friend dan dennett, who's here today, has one.
the crazy idea is that there's no hard problem of consciousness.
the idea of the inner film is all involves a kind of illusion or confusion.
in fact, all we have to do is explain objective functionality, brain behaviors, and then we have explained everything we need to explain.
well, i say i wish for him more power.
that's the kind of radical idea that you need to explore if you want to have a reductionist theory of consciousness depends on the brain.
at the same time, for me and a lot of other people, this view is very close to denying the warehouse simply being satisfied.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
in the remaining time, i want to explore crazy ideas, which i think may have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is essential.
sometimes some of the physical aspects of the universe are fundamental words: space, time and mass.
and they suppose basic laws that govern them, like gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and laws are not projected from any fundamental level.
instead, she's found that she's qatari, and that's where the world is built.
now sometimes, the baseline list is expanding.
in the 19th century, maxwell found that the electromagnetic phenomena in terms of the current principles, time and mass and newtonian laws were borrowing on fundamental laws of electromagnetism and electrochemical implications as a fundamental component of the wisdom of those laws.
i think that's the situation we're in with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in present-day terms, time and mass and charge, then, from the side of reason, we need to scale up.
the natural thing to do is to assume consciousness itself as a fundamental, fundamental building block of nature.
and that doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens up the way you apply science to it.
what we need then is to study the fundamental laws that regulate consciousness, the laws that connect consciousness to other fundamentalities: space, time, mass, physical processes.
physicians sometimes say we want the basic laws so simple that they can be written on the front part of the t-shirt.
well i think something like that is the situation we're in in relation to consciousness.
we want the basic laws so simple that we can write them on the front side of the t-shirt.
we don't know what those rules are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness can be global.
each system can have some degrees of consciousness.
this one is sometimes called self-help, sometimes papchiatrics, "papmind," referring to the public and "psss," pointing to the mind, each conscious system, not just humans, dogs, rats, but even microbes, elementary particles, elementary particles.
even the photon has a certain degree of consciousness.
it's not that phonopods are smart or they think.
and the photons are not worried because they think, "unfortunately, i'm always moving close to the speed of light.
i've never been able to slow down until the name of the flowers. "
no, it's not.
but the idea is that photons may have some elements of a crude sense, some primitive precision of consciousness.
this might sound a little bit revolt to you.
i mean, why would anyone think of this crazy thing
some motivations come from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is essential, like space and time and mass, it's natural to assume it could be universal, as well as their condition.
it's worth remembering that although the idea is not obvious to us, it's less intuitive for people of different cultures, where the human mind is more connected to nature.
the deeper motivation comes from the idea that perhaps the most simple and powerful way to find the basic laws that connect awareness to physical processing is to connect consciousness with information.
when there's information processing, there's consciousness.
mreating complex information, as in humans, means complex consciousness.
and processing simple information means a simple consciousness.
and what's really interesting is that in the last few years, neuroscientists juliet actually took this kind of theory and developed it very precisely with mathematical theory.
he has a mathematical measure of the integration of information called phi, which measures the amount of information integrated within the system.
and the fbi is supposed to correspond to consciousness.
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of integrated information, high degree of fi, a huge amount of consciousness.
in the mouse, there's a middle degree of information integration, it's still important, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when you go down to the maggots, the microbes, the particles, you get me the fbi.
they also show me the full amount of information, but they're still above zero.
in bobby's theory, there will be unrequited degrees of consciousness.
in fact, he suggests a key law of consciousness: the higher the fi, the more consciousness.
now, i don't know if this theory is right, but it's actually, i think, the leading theory right now in consciousness, and it's been used to integrate a whole bunch of science data, and it has a beautiful property that it's actually very simple to write on the front part of the t-shirt.
the other motivation and the final is that a "general of self" can help us integrate consciousness into the physical world.
and many physicists and philosophers have noticed that physics is strangely abstract.
it's describing reality using a set of equations, but it doesn't tell us about the reality that's behind it.
as stephen hawking says, what do you put the fire in the equations
well, according to the general self-help, you can leave the equations of physics as it is, but you can make it half the flow of consciousness.
that's really what physics does ultimately, half the flow of consciousness.
from this perspective, consciousness is what puts fire in equations.
according to this view, consciousness doesn't bother out of the physical world as a kind of addition.
it's right there at the heart of the physical world.
and this view, i think, has a public psychology perspective, has the ability to change our relationship to nature, and it may have some very serious and moral consequences.
and some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i should eat anything that has consciousness, so i have to be vegetarian.
now, if you're a self-master and you take this view, you're very hungry.
so i think when you think about it, it's going to lead to changing your views, whereas what matters to moral symptoms and abstraction, not really the fact of consciousness, but the degree of consciousness and complexity.
it's also natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.
what about the hyper-interest system in "hers, samantha
is it conscious
well, if you take the face of a "the generalist" view, it certainly has complex information processing and complex information, so it's very likely that the answer is yes, it's conscious.
if that's true, that raises serious ethical issues about ethics of intelligent computer systems and close ethics.
finally, we may be asking about the awareness of the whole group, this planet.
does a country have its own
or at a more local level, is a integrated group like the audience at ted, do we now have a special collective consciousness of ted, an interior film for this ted group that is different from the interior of every part of our group
i don't know the answer to that question, but i think at least it's worth considering.
well, so this is a "general self" view, this is a radical vision, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident in the first crazy idea, which is to consider consciousness more fundamental than my confidence in the second idea, which we generally consider.
i mean, the point of view raises a number of questions and a number of challenges, like how those small pieces of consciousness are added to the kind of complex consciousness that we know and love.
if we can answer those questions, we're going to walk the right path to a serious theory of consciousness.
and if you can't, this is probably the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we can't predict a solution overnight.
but i think we'll eventually find a solution to it.
understanding consciousness is the real key, i think, to understand the universe and to understand ourselves, both.
we may just need the right crazy idea.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village in victoria.
growing up was a normal nature.
i went to school and i heard with my friends that i had a fight with my young brothers.
all of that was normal.
and when i was 15, one of the people in our local community called my family and wanted a pragmatic prize to get a rent to the community.
and my dad said, "that's really cool, but there's a single problem in that.
it didn't actually do anything. "and they were right about that, you know.
i went to school, i got a good grade, i had a little work after school in the salon of my mother to spend the hair, and i spent a lot of time watching "blood-pasting" and "downton rosling."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but that was true.
i was never doing anything outside of the box.
i was not doing anything that would be considered as a cigarette to pull out the deficit out of the equation.
years later, i was in the second high school in melbourne school, and i was 20 minutes before i started the legal class for 11 years, and a boy raised his hand and said, "ms., when do you start throwing your word"
and i said, "what word"
you know, i've been explaining to them about the precision bill for 20 minutes.
and he adds, "you know, your motivational speech.
you know, when people come to school, they usually say things that are inspiring.
"it's usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: this was the only experience of this boy with his own needs as a means of inspiration.
but we're not, for this boy and not that bears, i mean, that's true for many of us.
for many of us, disabled are not our teachers, our doctors, our students.
we're not real people. we're there for them.
and actually, i'm sitting on this stage and i look like i'm in this wheelchair and you're sort of expecting me to inspire you. right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i'm afraid i'll be very disappointing you.
i'm not here to inspire you.
i'm here to tell you that we've been lied about disability.
yes, we have a lie bite that says helplessness is bad.
it's something, and if you live with deficit, it makes you extraordinary.
it's not bad. it doesn't make you special.
in the past few years, we've been able to deploy this lie even further through social media.
you may have seen images like this: "the only deficit in life is the bad behavior."
or this one: "i'm so unacceptable." actually.
or this one: "before we stop, try!"
so these are just a bunch of examples, but there are more of these examples.
you know, you may have seen the little girl without a wiggling picture, holding the pencil.
or you may have seen a kid running on two satellite legs.
and these pictures, there are many of them, and that's what we call pornography.
and i use the term deliberately, because it embodiments one group of people to the benefit of another group of people.
so in this case, we embody disabled to the nonviolent benefit.
the purpose of these pictures is to inspire you, to motivate them to look at them and think, "well, whatever my life is bad, i can be worse.
i could have been that person. "
but what if you were that person
i didn't have the number of times that a stranger came to me and told me that they thought i was courageous or inspiring. and that was before i had sort of done my work as a sign of advertising.
they were quietly quiet for my renaissance in the morning, and remember my name.
and this brings us to the tool of these images, these images bring in special needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they're there to look at them, and then think that everything is not bad for you, to make all your concerns in perspective.
and life as a disabled person is really, really hard.
we're overcoming some odds.
but those are not the things we think we want.
it's not something about our bodies.
i use the term "people who are disabled" as a purpose, because i share what's called the social model of disabilities, which tells us that we are more disabled with our society in which we live from our bodies or our diagnosis.
so, i've been in this body for a long time.
and i really love it.
you do the things that i need to do, and i have learned to use it on top of his ability as you did, and that's what the kids in those pictures also did.
they don't do anything that's unnatural about nature.
they use their bodies and they go up to the point of performance.
so, is it fair to bring them and envy them in this way, to publish them
when people say, "you are the source of inspiration," they mean it.
and i know why that happens.
it's because of the lie, which they followed for us to lie, that disability makes you extraordinary and special.
we don't actually do that.
and i know what you're thinking.
you know, i'm here to make fun of inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god, can you not be inspired sometimes by some things"
and the thing is, yes.
i know from other disabled people all the time.
but i don't know that i'm more wrong than them.
i'm learning it's a brilliant idea to use the airwaves to pick up things that have fallen from you. i'm learning this remarkable trick: how to charge your phone battery through a wheelchair battery
violence!
we learn from each other's eggs, forces and what we carry, not against our bodies and diagnoses, but against our world, our physical body.
i really think that that lie to us from disability is a huge darkness.
it makes life hard for us.
and that saying, "the only disability in life is the bad behavior," because that saying nonsense is because it's not real, because it's a social model of disability.
there are not enough smiles of a ladder that turned it into an electric chair.
first of all, smiling on tv isn't going to make the text written for deaf people.
there's not enough standing in the middle of a library and radiation with a positive card that will transform all those books into braille.
it's never going to happen.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the natural thing.
i want to live in a world where a 15-year-old girl in her room is sitting in her room watching "blood-free remaining" and she doesn't walk out but she's a badge because she's watching a seat.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations of disabled people that we only get out of bed and remember our name in the morning.
i want to live in a world where the real achievements of disabled people, i want to live in a world where a kid on the 11th high school in millennia is not intrinsically surprised because his teachers use a seat.
disability does not make you special, thank you. it tells you what you thought you knew it made you extraordinary.
what does a combined reality and a football for hackers to get sensory communication
and what is the speed of a syoto bird
unfortunately, i will only answer one of these questions today, so rather than try to love your depression.
when most people think about actually integrated, they think of the movie "manitopinet," and tom cruise blues with their hands in the air, but the integrated reality is not science fiction.
the integrated reality is something that's going to happen in our lives, and it's going to happen because we have the tools to do that, and people have to realize that, because the integrated reality is going to change our lives just as much as the internet and mobile phones are going to change.
so how do we get to the integrated reality
the first step is the step i'm wearing right now, with google glass.
i'm sure google glass is familiar for many of you.
what i might not be so powerful is google glass is a device that allows you to see what i see.
i'm going to allow you to experience the sense of being a professional athlete in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try and describe it to you.
i have to use words.
i have to create a framework to do that you're filling up with in your own imagination.
with google glass, we can put this under good quality, and we can feel what the enemy is at the field at 100 miles an hour, the blood is in your ears.
you can feel what it's like to have a 250-pound man running around trying to cut your head in every book.
and i was on the receiving end of this and not feeling so good.
now, i have some footage to show you what it's like to wear google glasses under a helmet to give you that sense.
unfortunately, not just footage from my local football role, because my period is solemn that emergent technology is what happens when we float a submarine, but we do what we can.
so, let's watch some videos.
chris kallo: there.
oh, so, collision. terrible.
would you let's get a little closer.
right ready
come on!
ca: so you see, a little sense of what it's like to hit you in a football field of view.
now, you may have noticed that there are some people who are not unhappy: the rest of the team.
we have a video of that from the university of washington.
public player: here, rats 54! mice 54!
blue eight! blue eight! come on!
ah!
ca: again, that makes you a little bit closer to what it's like to be in the playground, but that's not even close to being in my local football role.
the veterans want that experience.
they want to be in the court.
they want to be their favorite players, and they've already talked to me through youtube, and through twitter, they say, "can that apply to their main middle player
or the back player
we want that experience. "
well, once you have that experience with jono and google glass, how the user can actually live more.
how do you step three
well, our steps are just through what's called oculus, and i'm sure many of you are strong.
and the october is described as one of the most virtual reality devices ever invented, and that's not a fake victim.
i'm going to show you that this is not fake fake in this video.
man: uh! uh!
no! no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh my god! ah ah ahhhhhhhhh!
chris kallo: so this is a man's experience of dying in a train that is scared on his life.
what would that cheerleader experience be like when i showed him a video shot of adrianne peter peter, it goes across the line, covered in a powerful arm before he runs out of the ground
what would that cheerleading experience be like when macy is running in the stadium and putting the ball behind the net, or refrigerating the ball in wilburg
what would that cheerleading experience be like when it slips down a mountain at a speed of over 70 miles an hour as a hillsy olympic climber
i think adult diapers can go up.
but that's not the integrated reality yet.
this is just virtual reality.
how do we turn into reality
it turns into a merger reality, when the coaches and the managers and the finance of this information about people's desire to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our disgust better
how do you use this to win games "
because the difference is always used for winning games.
they like to win. this gives them money.
so, briefly, a brief history of technology in the role of the local football.
in 1965, polymers kuznets put a major middle player in order to call the games faster.
they won the super bowl this year.
the other difference has been happening.
the game was much more interesting because it became a little more interesting.
it was faster.
in 1994, my role put the local football ball on the front round tables and then the defense later.
the matches saw more people because they were faster.
it was more fun.
in 2023, imagine you're a player coming back to the body and you're offered your next game right in front of your transparent plastics that you already want.
no more worry about the causality of games.
no more worry about the campaigning of toys to remind you.
just get out and interact.
and the trainers really want this to be very, very hard, because the contradictory tasks cause the toy to lose the games.
the loss of games is about your own story of work as coach.
they don't want to.
but integrated reality is not just a well-written game book.
real integrated reality is also a way of getting all of that data and using it in real time to improve how you play a game.
how could that be
well, very simple numbers are a camera in every corner of the stadium that's pointed down give you a view of the top of all the people down there.
you also have information from the helmet sensors and the high-tech gait that we're working on right now.
we take all that information, and we make it flow out of your eyes.
the good difference makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and the shots allow them to carry more information.
that determines the good difference.
it's bad. now, your information technology department is as important as your scout.
and i've been removing data not for geeks anymore.
it might also be the cylinder player who knows
what would that look like in the court
well, imagine you're the main middle player.
i took the tiger and i retreated backwards.
the stadium explores a free compound. suddenly, a bright flash on the left side of the conductive tells you that the invisible vessel runs run right into you.
in the normal condition, you won't see it, but the integrated reality system teaches you to do it.
step towards the target.
another absorbent absorber of the future of free.
the ball passes, but you hit the moment of passing.
the ball is far from its trajectory.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on the receiver, you see a patch of grass lighting and you know it has to modify.
he goes, he grabs the ball, he runs, and he blows the earth.
the body is going excited, and the encouraging with it every step in the way, you see from every perspective.
now this is something that will create huge marketing in the game.
we're going to make a lot of people watch, because people want this experiment.
the courageous people want to be in the court.
they want to be their favorite player.
the integrated reality would be part of sport, because it's so comfortable, it's just.
but the question i'm going to ask you is is this all we can use is the reality in which we can use the built-in
are we just going to use it for our food, for our enjoyment, for our pleasure as a mall
because i think we can use the integrated reality of something bigger.
i'm sure we can use integrated reality as a way to promote sensory communication through human species itself, literally through the visualization of somebody else's appearance of what someone else looks like.
we know what this technology is worth for for mathematical patrollers.
then it's going to reach billions of dollars a year.
but what is the value of this technology for a teacher in a classroom trying to show a resource, how harmful does it work from a health perspective
what is this technology worth for an uganda or russian spearhead trying to show the world how to live under perturbation
what is the value of this technology for the writer, huddled or bill davis, and they're trying to inspire a generation of children to think about space and science more instead of the quarter reports per year and al denta
ladies and gentlemen, the integrated reality is coming.
the questions that we ask, the choices we make, the challenges we face, as usual, come back to us.
thank you.
i recently retired from digging the california streets after a 23-year service.
most of that time i spent in dorms in the south of martin county, which included the golden gate bridge.
the bridge is a creative building, known worldwide, known as san francisco, and the pacific ocean, inspiring engineering.
unfortunately, it's also a suicide factor, where after the most remote areas of the world are trying to commit suicide.
the golden gate bridge opened in 1937.
joseph sezas, the head of engineers, responsible for building the bridge that he quoted, said, "the bridge is practically anti-productive.
skin to commute on a bridge is not practical and not possible. "
but when it opened more than 1,600 people jumped to scare them off that bridge.
some believe that travel between the towers of the bridge will lead them to another dimension, this bridge holds an idea of romance and the falling from a venue will be released from your pain and your choices, and the water at the bottom will wash your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when you use the bridge to commit suicide.
after free falls by four or five seconds, the body hits water at 75 miles an hour.
that shock is broken by the bones, which then penetrates the biomorphic organs.
many die of collision.
now religion that doesn't die generally floats around with no power, and then you know.
i don't think those who choose this way of suicidalizing realize how awful death is that way.
this is the bond.
except for the lag on the towers, there are 32 inches of iron for the bridge.
here most of these people stand before they kill themselves.
and from my experience, i can say that if the person gets to that one, and in the process of their life, it's very hard to get it back.
i took this general picture of the past while this young woman was talking to the officer and she was meditating her life.
and i can tell you happy that we were able to successfully make that day to get it back on the fence.
when i started working on the bridge, we weren't officially trained.
we had these calling.
it wasn't just bad for those trying to commit suicide, but also for the officers.
it's been a long way since.
now, old officials and psychologists are training new power.
this is jason grier.
jason met june 22 last year when she received a call for him to be trying to suicide on the hill in the middle of the bridge.
i responded, and when i arrived, i watched jason talking to the bridge officer.
jason was 32 years old and he came up with a drone from new jersey.
in fact, he came here twice before new jersey to try suicide on top of this bridge.
after about an hour talking to jason, he asked if we knew the story of pandora.
if you remember in the greek mythology, russell created pandora, and sent her to earth with a box, then he told her, "don't open the box at all."
but one day, the classrooms can be curious from pandora, and push it to open the box.
i started off with both sides and sides, and all sorts of evil versions of humans.
the only news in that box was hope.
then we asked jason, "what would happen if the box opened and there was no hope"
i was silent for a moment, and he was dead, and then a man.
this crazy guy, the smart guy from new jersey, just older to suicide.
i talked to the parents of gason that night, and i think while i was talking to them, i didn't look like i had done everything i could, because the next day, the family pigs called me to check.
jason's son asked him to do that.
the insanity that was indirect to suicide affected by many people.
i'm going to ask you this question: what would you do if one of your friends is to show you your friends, and who would like to commit suicide
what would you say
how are you going to know what you're going to say
in my experience, it's not just talking but listening.
i listen to them.
no success, no blame, don't tell that person you feel, because you probably don't feel.
just being there, it could be the turning point they need.
if i feel that someone thinks of suicide, we don't feel like face it and ask it.
one way to ask this question is, "other people in similar circumstances have thought about ending their lives; have you ever had these ideas"
the face of the person immediately can save his life and be a turning point for him.
some of the other signals that you can observe: people, believing life is horrific and it will never get better; deficits, belief that there is nothing we can do about it; copying from social life; losing desire in life.
i had this talk a few days ago, and when i got an email from a lady i'd like to read her message to you.
her son lost in january 19 this year, and i posted this mail just a few days ago, and after i approved it and shared it, i'll read you.
"hello, kevin. i expect you're at ted right now.
there must be a wonderful experience.
i think i should point at the bridge the week.
so i wanted to leave you with a note.
hopefully you will have a word for people and come home and tell her their friends who tell their friends, etc.
i still am a little bit missing, but i really started to realize that mike's moments are not going to come home.
mike was driving from nepal to san francisco to watch the san francisco team game 49 with his father in january 19.
but it hasn't reached forever.
i called the baumala police and looked up his loss that night.
and the next morning, i got soccer to my house and they told me that the mike's car was standing near the bridge.
and he noticed that giban jumped from a bridge at 1: 58 p.m. last night.
thank you so much for watching those who were just for a very weak time to support themselves.
who here hasn't felt weak without suffering from a mental illness
it's very hard to eradicate.
let me fight you.
the golden gate bridge was supposed to be the gulf of our beautiful gulf, not cemetery.
have a wish for you to sign this week, my jaw. "
i can't imagine her courage to go over the bridge and walk down the path that i've been asked that day, and only to encourage her to continue life.
i want to introduce you to a man who i describe in hope and courage.
on march 11 of 2005, i responded to a start on the radio, as potentially, to try to suicide on the sidewalk passage near the north tower.
i ran my motorcycle on the pedestrian passage and noticed that guy, kevin bertie, standing on the sidewalk passage.
when he saw me, he chose the pedestrian barrier to the pedestrian, and stood on that little tube that wraps on the tower.
and all the way up to the next hour and a half, kevin has joined me and he's talking about his desk.
kevin decided that day to go back to that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, he gifted.
"this is a new beginning, this is a new life."
but i asked him, "what was the reason that you were coming back and giving life and hope for another chance"
you know what he told me
he said, "you're listening to me.
i just got in touch. i just joined me. "
shortly after that event, i got a letter from kevin, and here's the message with me right now, and i'd like to read it to you.
"dear mr. berners, nothing will be wiped out what happened on march 11, but you're one of the reasons why kevin is here.
i'm absolutely sure that kevin was looking for it.
he was diagnosed with a psychiatric disease that he's now dealing with regularly.
i was raised by kevin when he was six months old, and i didn't know at all his inherited ranks, but thank god, we know that now.
how to make use of it as we say it.
we freeze god for you.
the process and the city for you, barnana tibetania. "
and at the bottom of the message, i wrote, "hammer, when i went to san francisco public hospital that night, they'd written your name on the patient.
i swear i wanted to be very, very good at correcting that mistake. "
today, kevin is a crazy father and a powerful member of society.
we speak honestly about the events of that day and about my lies in the hopes that the cause of others inspires.
suicide is not just something i've had in my work.
it's a personal thing.
my grandfather did have to commit suicide with himself.
even though that verb is over and over, it has given me the chance to recognize it.
that's what suicide is doing.
most evaporators, or those who think suicide, don't hurt someone else's performance.
they just want to end the special mission.
usually, it's done in three ways: sleep, drugs or alcohol or death.
during my work, i responded and involved in hundreds of tasks trying to suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i was in charge of losing only two conditions, but two cases are significant.
one was jason.
the other one was a man who talked to him about the clock.
and as i talked to him, my hand shouted three times.
when he finally ran over, he looked at me, and he said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
and he jumps out.
happy, completely horrified.
i want to tell you also, the vast majority of people we meet on that bridge don't get suicide.
in addition, those few who jumped off the bridge and lived and could talk about their experience, that one or two percent, most of them said that at the moment they chose that barrier they knew they had committed a chance to live again and wanted to live again.
what i tell people, the bridge isn't just martin about francisco, but it connects people together too.
that connection or the bridge that we create, that is something that each of us should fight for.
spervasion can be prevented.
there is help, there is hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different from what you are, but, inside you, you know who you are, and that question is hacking into your own: how do you become
i might be unique about it, but i'm not alone, i'm not alone at all.
so when i became a fashion platform, i finally felt i was going to achieve the dream i'd dreamed of since i was a child.
my foreign personality corresponds to my inner truth, with my own self.
for a lot of complicated reasons, i'll ask her later, when i look at this picture, then, i felt that i achieved it. it made me. it made me.
but in october, i realized i was still only at the beginning.
all of us, we've been put into boxes by our parents, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even our own bodies.
some people have the courage to break that, and the boundaries don't have to be accepted because of their skin color or because of beliefs around them.
these people are the source of a constant threat to the status quo, of what's currently accepted.
in my case, in the last nine years, some of my neighbors, some of my friends and colleagues, and even my agent, they didn't know about my history.
i think, mysteriously, this is what's called the misery.
and this is secret.
i was recorded at birth as a boy based on the shape of my reproductive organs.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, wandering around the house, i always put a t-shirt on my head.
my mother was asking me, "how do you wear that t-shirt on your head all the time"
i was like, "mom, that's my hair, i'm a girl."
i knew then how to define self-define.
sex, it was still completely unchanged. it's completely unchanged, but we now know it's much more resilient, more intricate and mysterious.
because of my success, i didn't have the courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world works with us, and that hopefully is a experience.
every day, i'm so grateful that i'm a woman.
i have a mother and father and family who accept my truth, as i would like to be.
many are not that fortunate.
there's often an age in asian culture celebrating the awful mystery of sex.
there's a god that leads to compassion.
there's the hindu god, the migration goddess.
and that's when i was eight, i was in a celebration of the philippines with these secrets.
i was at the front of the theater, and i remember, that beautiful lady in front of me, and i remember that moment, something inside of me saying, this is what i want to be.
so when i was 15, i still had a boy girls, and i met a woman named p.m.
she was the head of the manager for a transgender.
that night she asked me, "how did you not join the beauty contests"
she convinced me that if she wanted to do that, she would cost the tape fee and clothes, and that night, she won the swimming clothes and the better in the long-term flashing, and took the second center in the competition between 40 participants.
that moment changed my life.
and all of a sudden, i was introduced to the world's beauty competition.
and it's not used to be the first job to be the sexually transformative queen, but i took the opportunity.
so from 15 to 17 years i participated in most of those competition, so that i participated in a competition that was literally going on in a mushroom truck -- or again, a competition that was sitting next to a rice field, and when it rained -- and in many cases it rained a lot -- the organization had to move the competition into one of the people's homes.
i have lived with a stranger, especially when traveled to districts in the philippines.
but, more importantly, i met some of my best friends from that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said that i had been approved to order entry permission to america, which means that i could move to america.
i have fought that.
i told my mother, "mama, i am entertaining.
here with my friends, i love travel, and i'm a beautiful queen. "
but two weeks later, she called and said, "do you know that in america you can change your name and sex"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also said to me to put an e double-dog in my name.
she also had me when i underwent surgery in thailand in my 19th year.
that's amazing, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand their performance, they are considered one of the best and most accurate and highest-level insurance in those surgery.
and then in the united states, we have to have surgery before we change the name and the army.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember when i wanted to have a driving license in california, my name was gibbin and the army signature was "my son."
that was a moment of power.
for some people, personal identity is to drive or even get alcohol, for me, was my license to life, to feel the bible.
and suddenly, i was scared that was turned on.
i felt that i was able to achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a dancer.
many are not fortunate.
i think it's because of this woman named apple butler.
she's from new york, and she's a young lady who lives bravely, but hate surrounded her life.
and for the majority of my community, this is really our life.
our suicide rate is 99 times higher than the general average.
on november 20, we organize a global stopping pitch on a transformer day.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who prayed and stood against injustice.
this is marcelon and silvia rey.
today, this particular moment, this is my true moment.
i could no longer live my truth for myself and my only.
i would like to offer the best to help others live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, exposed, even one day, there's no need to stop the 20 november.
the inner truth made me accept myself.
can you do that
thank you very much.
thank you very much. kt: ja: jetty, a quick question for you.
i'm wondering what you're going to say, especially for parents, but more broadly, friends, family, anybody who finds themselves in front of a child or a person who's faced or passing a confused situation of the sex that's identified, what can you say to that family to help them become better, arrested and shadowed
jc: of course, right. first of all, i'm very lucky.
the support system, especially with my mother's support, and my family, itself was very powerful.
i remember every moment i would train a woman who was wandering around, who would mourn them, or sometimes when they call me and tell me that their parents don't accept that. i was taking the phone and calling my mother, "mom, can you talk to that woman"
sometimes it doesn't work, but that's just sex in our hearts, right
i mean, we've all been classified when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start that conversation is sometimes the specific sex that we don't agree. and so there has to be space that people can define self-directed, and that conversation we have to have must be with parents, and colleagues.
the transgendered movement is still at the beginning, compared to how the gay movement started.
it's still a lot to do.
there must be an understanding.
there could be room for wonder and ask questions, and i hope all of you will be my allies.
kt: thank you very much, that was great. jl: thank you.
in many male and tribal societies, parents are often known to their children, but i'm one of the few who know their daughter, and i'm proud of this.
i started her campaign for education and defendment, in 2007, when she was forced to work in 2011, and the national peace prize elected the peace prize became very famous in her country.
before all of that, my daughter was, but now, i'm her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at human history, the story of women is a story of injustice, of inequality, violence and exploitation.
you see, in male societies, from the beginning, when a house is born, and it's not celebrated.
she's not a fan of her, either a mother or a son.
gaze baton baton, mother tongue, neither are they left.
mothers are not very comfortable with birth to home.
when the first girl is born, the first daughter, the mother is very sad.
when the second daughter is born, the mother is shocked, and when she's expected to be born a male son, but a third girl, she feels guilty as if she's a criminal.
not only is mother suffering, but also the girl, the new baby, when she grows, she suffers.
at the age of five, when you have to be in school, the girl stays at home while her brothers go to school.
and even 12 years old, in a way, live a good life.
we can kidnap.
we can play with her friends on the streets, and we can move on the streets like the butterfly.
but when it becomes a teenager, when it gets into her 13 year-old, it's not having home from not being faced.
they're heating up four walls between them.
it's not a free-run monkey anymore.
it becomes something called honor, her son, her brother, her family, and if you move the limit of that honor, it could be killed.
and it's interesting that the charter of chambers, not only does the life of the girl, but it also affects the lives of the males in her family.
i know a family of seven brothers and one sisters, and that one brother, migrated into the gulf countries, so that it would earn the living for the seven and a mother's brother, because he thought it would be worthwhile if i learned the seven brothers and fathers from home to earn their own living.
this brother, a healthier, is to enjoy his life and happily brothers for what's called honor.
there's other habitats in male communities called submersibles.
"good girl" should be very quiet and very modest and very printed.
that's the standard.
the good girl must be very good at it.
it should be silent and to accept her son's decisions and read more of them, even if she doesn't like them.
if she's married by a man who doesn't like him or a young man, she has to accept that, because she doesn't want to look at her as "inherently".
if she got married at a very young age, she had to kill that.
otherwise they would not call it a printing press.
and what happens eventually
in the words of the poetry, they're promoted, put in bed and then they're busted more and more.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, she's going to learn the same forensic lesson for her daughter and the same honor lesson for her children.
and this is a long-lasting ring.
ladies and gentlemen, we can change if we think differently, if we think about women and men differently, if women and men in male and killing societies in developed countries, if they can break down some family habits and community, if they can abolish racial laws in their countries, which are against basic human rights for women and people's fundamental rights.
they are brothers and sisters, when i was born mall, and for the first time, believe me, i don't like newborn babies, i'll be honest with you, but when i looked in her eyes, believe me, i got a big honor.
and before he was born long, i thought of her name, and i was fascinated by the mythic of his heroism in afghanistan.
her name was malali from mayd, named my daughter ali.
a few days after i was born mola, my daughter was born -- my father was accident -- came home and brought the family tree, the bush tree, looked at the tree, and saw that it tracked the entire 300-year history of our ancestors.
but they were all men, and i picked up my film, added a line to my name, and i wrote "mola."
and when she got older, she was four and a half years old, recorded in my school.
now, why do i remember recording it at a school
i have to mention this thing.
this may be an intrinsically guaranteed thing in canada, in america, in many developed countries, but in poor countries, in male communities and tribal societies, this thing is an important event in the lives of the house.
to go to school means to know her identity and her name.
the acceptance of school means that it enters the world of dreams and the world of finance, where they can discover their potential in their future lives.
i have five sisters, none of them can go to school, but you will be surprised. it's two weeks ago, when i was filling up the canadian graves, when i was filling up the family section of demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason for that is that i haven't seen my life -- they're all written in a document.
that's why i got invited to appreciate my daughter.
the thing my father couldn't give to my sisters, i thought i should change it.
i've always appreciated the intelligence and verbalness that my daughter has.
i would encourage her to sit with me when my friends would come.
i encouraged her to go with me to many meetings.
and all of these medical values, which i was going to instill in her person.
it didn't just have them. it was only for me.
i've turned all these medical values to my school students and boys alike.
learning was used as a means of liberation.
i learned my student, i learned my students from girls, not from learning to do things.
my students taught me not to learn a lesson called a fake honor.
my siblings and siblings, we were striving for extra rights for women and we were struggling to get more, more space for women in society.
but we have a new phenomenon.
it was human rights, and particularly women's rights.
it was called "order."
it means completely exclusive to share women in all political, economic and social activities.
hundreds of schools are proud.
she's stopping girls from going to school.
and women were forced to not be the donkey and they were allowed to go to the markets.
the musicians were quit, the girls and the singers were killed.
millions were suffering, but fewer people were talking, and the most horrifying things were to be surrounded by people like those who were killed and murdered, and to be talking about your rights.
it was really the most terrifying thing.
at the age of 10, i stood up with mala, i stood for the right to learn.
i wrote a note for the bbc blog, and it volunteered for documentaries for the new york times, and i talked about every platform i could talk about.
and it was the voice of the most powerful.
it has spread its voice all over the world.
and that was why the taliban couldn't afford it, on october of 2012, called her head down the road from nearby.
this day was kind of the day of the judgment of my family and me.
the world turned into a big black hole.
when my life and death were, i whispered into my wife's ear, "is mom what happened to my daughter and your daughter"
but suddenly she said, "please don't touch yourself.
i've stood on the right side.
you've put your life at stake for the right, for peace, for education, your daughter was inspired by you and i joined you.
both were on the right track and god will protect them. "
these few words meant a lot to me, and i didn't ask that question again.
when she was a mola in the hospital, she was very painful and she suffered from headaches because her face was cut, i would have seen a shadow of punching my wife's face.
but my daughter didn't complain about a day.
she was telling us, "i'm fine with my fan of fanatics and my nepal feeling in my face.
i'll be okay, please don't worry. "
it was our instincts and our priests, and it was our qualities.
my siblings and siblings, we taught the resilience in the sinister of time, and i'm happy to share with you that although it's a symbol of child-women rights, it's like every 16-year-old girl.
he cryes when he doesn't complete her homework.
they talk to their brothers, and i'm very happy to that.
people ask me, what's the special thing in my righteousness that made it so bold and so courageous that it spoke and it was balanced
and i love them, don't ask me what i did.
but ask me what i didn't do.
i didn't cut the wings. that's it.
thank you very much.
thank you, thank you very much, thank you.
i had a brain surgery 15 years ago, and since then, brain surgery has become passionate for me.
i'm actually an engineer.
so first, let me just say i recently joined the google monson in the google x and the surgeon that i'm going to talk about, and the surgical science i've just done before i go to google and on the side.
well, say, there's a stigma when you have surgery in the brain.
is it still smart or not
and if you do not, can you gain intelligence again
after my neurosurgeon, part of the brain, i was arrested with that.
it wasn't part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was part of the fertilizer in the center of the brain that controls hormones and main neurotransmitters.
right after the surgery, i had to decide how many drugs i had to find a day, and if i had to stop eating these materials, i would die within hours.
every day, 15 years ago, every single day i had to decide the structure and mix of chemicals, and eat them, to survive.
and you had a lot of hard decisions.
but fortunately, i'm passionate about experimentation, and so i decided to try and find the best doses because there was no obvious reference for that and better.
i started experimenting with a few clips, and i was shocked to see how a small change in the mix would take a huge change, my feelings of myself, my thoughts, my actions to others.
one of the exciting positions: for two months, i actually did a good measure of doses and psychosis for a man who was 20 years old and was shocked by how my ideas changed.
i was angry all the time, and i think of sex continuously, and also the smartest person ever, and also -- -- -- and of course, i've met some young, maybe even a little bit less of a thought.
it was my case extreme.
but, what surprised me was, i wasn't trying to be a fan.
i was actually trying to be, with some of the feelings of safety, to solve a problem i was facing in front of, but that didn't work.
so i couldn't possibly do that.
i've changed the doses.
but, that experience, i think, gave me an appreciation of men, why would it happen to them and also my understanding of men has gotten better ever since.
what i was trying to do was change and parallel hormones and neurotransmitters and tranquilization to try to reclaim my lost intelligence after disease and surgery. my creative ideas, and paralyz ideas.
and i often think through the pictures, and even when it was and will be able to get these brain images that i used in the prototypes, if you will, my ideas, experience different ideas of size, and try unintended.
this kind of thinking is not new.
scientists like houm and decarts and hungbits have seen this very similar.
they all thought that mental images and ideas were the same thing.
and there are a lot of debates that are currently contradicted, and a lot of debates about the books of the mind, but to me it's simple: mental images, of the majority of us are essential to creative thinking and creative creation.
so a few years later, i balance myself and i have a lot of mental images with a lot of elegance and a much more analysis of myself.
and right now i'm working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to the computer screen faster
can you imagine, if you could, a filmmaker can only use it and get it out in front of the world
or a musician who can get the music out of his brain
these are amazing and powerful possibilities for creators to point out at the speed of light.
and the truth is, despite obstacles to do that, he extends the perception of the brain scanning systems.
so let me give you a reason why i think we're sort of close to your thinking with two recent experiments from the best neural semester.
they both use fmri technique's fmri technology to visualize the brain, and this is a picture of the brain that's preluded from gorgon, ganus and his colleagues at harvard.
in the left-hand pole, the brain image of a person is raining.
the middle columns show the same brain scanning as the person imagining and seeing the same image.
the revenues on the right produce middle and left integrators, and they show that the difference is barely zero.
it's been repurposed on many people, and with many different pictures, with the same result always.
the difference between seeing a picture and imagining the same image, there's hardly any difference.
big, let me show you the other experiment, which is the premise of the jack gallery lab at ucla university.
they could decode the waves of the brain and turn them into a visual field that we could perceive.
and let me introduce you to that.
in this experiment, people have been shown hundreds of hours of video clips from a site while doing a brain activity to create a library more than a brain reaction to collect groups of pieces of segments.
and then a new film is shown with new images, new people, different animals, and in that process, they're scanned back.
computer, we only use scanning data and we decode that brain activity to show the actual imaginary image of people who are watching.
on the right-hand side, you see computer analysis, and on the left-hand side, the actual video.
the result is astonishing.
we're very close to doing that.
you just need to improve accuracy.
now remember when you see a picture versus imagining the same image, that gives the same brain scan.
it was done with the best accuracy of the brain scanner that's currently available, and the accuracy of those scanners have actually evolved thousands of times over the last few years.
so we need more resolution, a thousand times more to have a much deeper picture glimpse.
how do we do that
there are a lot of technologies for that.
one of them, they break the skull and they call live electrodes.
i don't like that.
there are many imaging technologies being displayed, some of them are equipped by themselves, but depending on the current mri success, one needs to ask, is this the end of the road to this technology
the conventional wisdom says that the loneliness way to get more accuracy is by a bigger magnet, but by just the larger magnetism, it provides some extra improvements of accuracy, not the improvement of the 1,000 times that we want.
i'm going to give you an idea instead of a bigger magnet, to make a better magnet.
there are a lot of technologies that are introduced in nanotechnology when they're applied in magnetic industry, they're produced in a new class of magnets. and with this technology, we can get very detailed, clear patterns of magnetic fields in all parts of the brain, and with that, we can get 3d interfaces that are 3d to control many patterns as
we can create more complex structures with very simple modifications, sort of like the breathing dignity.
so why is this important
many efforts in mri technology in years have gone to industry for many, many, many sizes, right
and yet many improvements in the accuracy of photography actually came from intelligent, creative solutions to encryption in fm and receptors in the mri systems.
and also, instead of a unified magnet, we use a pattern-specific magnet, plus fm waves.
and so, mri patterns combine the magnets with the fm radio waves and processors that can dramatically increase the information that we can extract from one survey.
in addition, we can describe everything we've learned about brain structure and memory to get improvement by a thousand times we need.
and using fmri, we can measure not only the blood flow, but measure the hormones and the neuron that we talked about earlier and also maybe the direct neural activity, which is the dream.
a marketplace can convey our ideas to the digital media.
can you imagine being able to transcend language and connect directly to us through human thoughts
what can we do then
and how else can we learn to deal with the realities of human ideas that have not been filmed
we think the internet is big.
these are big questions.
it may be a non-resistant way of inflating our ideas and skills.
and indeed, the same tool could lead to treating alzheimer's and diseases like this.
we have enough tests to open the door.
no matter, last year, will this happen in the last 15 years
it's hard to imagine that it would take longer.
we need to learn how to do that step together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about going out, not as usual, not as common as a hearing, not about homosexuality.
i think we all have secrets.
it might be a company that tells you that you love it for the first time, or tell someone you're pregnant, or tell someone you're cancer-proof, or start any other difficult conversation you might have in your lifetime.
every talk about evil, it's a difficult talk, and although our topics may be very different, the experience of living and free from closing is a global experience.
it's scary and it's frightening, but we have to do it.
some years ago, i was working at the south sandwich cafe and cabinet. it's a local restaurant in the city, and at my work, i was making a very severe struggle for female triangulation: like not having a quiet on the quote from "daddy dekurt's songs.
and depending on the threat in pants' short-term 'sarah's' short-term, and how recently i've been created, the question is often spreading from me, usually by a little boy: "are you a boy or a girl"
and there'd be a embarrassing silence at the table.
my jaw broke a little bit too far, holding the coffee pot in a little bit more revenge.
the father is moving around a newspaper, and the mother is firing their child, and she feels the ears of her ears.
but i don't say anything, and i'm inoculated.
i got to a point where every time i walked to a table where every time a child was three to 10 years old, i was ready to fight.
and this is a terrible feeling.
so i promised myself, next time i would say something.
and i'm going to go through that hard competition.
so, within weeks, it happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
silence is familiar, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all the precious feminist courses at this table. i have a quote that builds fried.
i have a clue to gloria steinem.
i have even a few clips from vaginas for her call.
so i took a deep breath, and i looked down and i looked at my face, a four-year-old girl in a pink, not a challenge for a feminist, just a child who had a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another deep breath, and i sat down and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of confusing.
my hair is as short as a boy, and you wear my boyfriend's clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear pink, and sometimes you want to wear your comfortable clothing
well, i'm the kind of girl who won more in comfortable day clothes. "
and she looked at the girl in care, and no other difficulty she was remembered, and she said, "my favorite day is purple with fish.
can i get a train, please "
and so it was. just, "oh, well, you're a girl.
how about that one train "
it was the easiest ever-minded conversation that had ever been elected.
and why because the alcatra and i, we were both real together.
so like many of us, i lived in a few tanks in my life, and yes, most of the time, my walls happened to be a rainbow.
but inside, in the darkness, you can't tell what color these walls are.
you just knew what you felt to live inside a closet.
so really, my clothes don't vary what you have, or you have.
sure, i'm going to give you 100 reasons why my experience was harder than your experience, but here's the shark link: a hard word is not a bad word.
the difficulty is the difficulty.
who can tell me to explain to someone that you declared your peers is harder than telling someone you just deceived
who can tell me that a story that's more difficult than telling your five-year-old child that you're heading towards divorce
there's nothing harder. it's just hard.
we need to stop changing our problems with other people's problems in order to make ourselves stupid or dumb about our problems and raise the same fact that we all suffer from difficulties.
at some point in our lives, we all live inside tanks, which may feel safe, or at least safer than we're sitting behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, no matter what you've made your walls, the closet is not a place to live.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
for me, i had a penny in the horses tail, a gorgeous, monster dress that was so high.
i wasn't that stagnant triangle ready to battle with any four-year-old child coming into the cafe.
i was freezing, tied at the angle of my stone, holding the gay tribe, and footing on any movement is the most horrific thing i've ever done.
my family and friends -- i've spent my life trying to please and not avoid their medicine, and now i'm turning things upside down.
i've been burning the scenario pages that i've always been so tragically trapped, so if you don't get too far with that bomb, it's going to be for you.
one of the most live memories i ever gave was bombs at my sister's marriage ceremony.
it was the first time that they had a large number of know that i was gay, and as i did my own paperwork, in the black bowie and the high height, i was wandering around the tables and then i stopped a table that my friends sat on, people that they knew me two years ago.
and shortly after that, one woman said, "i love lebanon!"
and then the war on homosexuality began.
"y, have you ever been to castro"
"well, yeah, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we haven't been there before, but we've heard it's amazing."
"n, do you know anthony's fairy tale
he's a really good person and he never talked about his girlfriend. "
"n, what's your favorite television show
our favorite show is wilburg.
and you know who loves jack.
jack is our favorite. "
and then one woman, joked, wanted so hard to show her support, i looked at her standing in my classroom, and she said, "well, sometimes my husband wears pink shirts."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody was getting their bombs.
i can go back to my friend and to my gay lesbian table, and they say, "oh, i'm going to borrow them from their navet and their dials through poverty through the gay foods that i brought with me, or i can empathize with them, and i can see that maybe it was the hardest thing they had done, that session was
obviously, it was easy to point out how they felt.
they stood up much more difficult and acknowledged the fact that they were trying.
and what could someone advise but not try
if you're aiming at honesty with somebody, you must be honest.
so the sharp conversations are still not my strength point.
ask anybody who's promised them.
but i get better, and i follow what i like to call the three principles of the girl.
now, please look at it through an evolving person like me, but do you know what it takes to basically go out and look the same
number one: be a origin.
take the armor. be yourself.
children at the cafe were not taking arms, but i was ready to fight.
if you want somebody to be honest with you, they need to know you're bleeding too.
number two: be clear. just say it. break down barriers.
if you're like me, admit it.
if you told your mother that maybe you were gay, they would have hope to change that.
don't give them that sense of false hoping.
and you're three, and most importantly, don't apologize.
you're telling your investigation.
we never apologize to that.
some can call on the road, so, sorry about your act, but never apologize for your truth.
well, some might answer your own thought, but that's about them, not about you.
this is their expectations, not your expectations.
that story, not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you wanted to write.
so next time you find yourself in the closet, the blacks grab your tribe, i know we've all experienced it before.
and you might feel so lonely, but you're not.
and we know that's hard but we need you here, no matter what the walls are made of, because i guarantee you that there are others staring at their keys to open up the brave spirit to open the door, so that person and show the world that we're bigger than our closet, and that closet is not a place where people can live.
thank you, bold. enjoy your own signature.
interesting -- what is it
if we look at evolutionary evolution into intelligence, one of the first examples was the famous quote of azerbaijackscheck that said, "the question of whether a machine can think of as much as whether a submarine can swim."
now, edinburgh, when i was this, he meant to be a depletion of the first computer scientists, like alan berger.
but, if you look back and you think about what are the biggest innovations we can then build artificial pots that fly and artificial artificiality, you find that only by understanding the underlying physical mechanisms in swimming and flying and building these machines.
and so, a few years ago, i started a program to try and understand the fundamental physical mechanisms that lie in intelligence.
let's take a step back.
let's first start with an intellectual experiment.
imagine that you're a legal species that doesn't know anything about the neighborhoods on the ground or the neuroscience on the ground or the intelligence on the ground, but you have great telescopes and you're able to see the earth, and you have a very long life, so that you can see the earth over millions, billions of years.
and i saw a really weird effect.
i've seen, during the millennia, that the earth is constantly being beaten up by asteroids, and that at some point, it's pointed out for reason, 2,000 years after christmas, that the asteroids that hit the earth that are supposed to collide with have drifted down or exploded before it hit the ground.
now of course, as a people of the earth, we know why we might be trying to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent collision.
but if you're a legal species who doesn't know any of this, and you don't have any concept about earth intelligence, you're forced to make a physical theory that explains how, up to a certain point in time, the asteroids that are blowing the surface of a planet are inevitable for doing it.
so i claim this is the same question of understanding the physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program that we were born a few years ago, i looked at a variety of subjects in science, and in many areas, which were going, i think, to a mechanistic, lonely mechanism.
in cosmology, for example, there have been many different topics that tell us that our universe seems to be organized in a very precise way to develop intelligence, and, in particular, to develop cosmic conditions that want to reduce the highest diversity in the potential future.
in games, for example, in a game of gaming -- everybody remembers in 1997 when depp blues of the ibm kasparov in chess -- a few people realize that in the last 10 years, in a game, it's a much more challenging game because it has a much more branchy agent, also started to summarize the computer games for
they are technologies that are trying to increase future choices to as much as possible during play.
ultimately, in motor planning, there are many new technologies that are trying to exploit robotic ability to increase future behavior to the extreme boundaries in order to achieve complex tasks.
so, we take all these topics and we combine them together, and i wondered, a few years ago, is there a perfect technology for intelligence that we can isolate from all these different topics
is there a single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yes. ["f q"] what you see is probably closer to an e q + ii that i saw in my life.
so what you see here is a consensus that intelligence is news, f, that is increasing the freedom of future actions of the extreme limits.
it's working on increasing future actions to the extreme borders, or keeping choices available, using some t, with the diversity of future time possible, x, until the future horizon, yo.
in short, intelligence should not be prepared.
interestingly, we need to increase the freedom of future actions to maximum borders and keep choices open.
and so, having this single equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
how predictive is it
do we predict human intelligence
do we build artificial intelligence
so i'm going to show you a video now that, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this single equation.
narrator: recent research in cosmology suggests that universities that produce more mess, or an entropy, in their lifetime, have to tend to be more and more curious conditions as our own.
but what if this temporary relationship between anthropology and intelligence is to go to a deeper relationship
what if the smart behavior isn't just about producing a long-term anthropomorphic product, but actually emerging directly from it
to explore that, we developed a software engine called antonica, designed to increase the long-term anthropomorphic production of any system that he's challenged himself.
in great ways, antonica was able to succeed in many animal intelligence tests, in human play, and even in making money that would take stock, all without giving him instructions to do that.
these are some examples of antonica actually.
just as a human standing upright without falling, here's an entropy that's automatically balanced using a cart.
this is a partly extraordinary behavior because we never covered antarctica.
he decided to balance the stick.
this ability to balance it will have applications in human robots and in human technologies.
just as animals are using things in their home as tools to get to the narrow spaces, here you see antonica, again with individual initiatives, was able to move a big disk that represents an animal to another place of making small opportunities, a tool, reaching into a small space where there is a third loan and freeing the third chances of its original position.
this tool uses a capability that will have applications in industry and smart farming.
also, just like some other animals that can cooperate to drag the mountain at the same time to free food, here we see that entropy is able to do a typical version of that task.
it has the ability to collaborate with interesting applications of economic planning and many other areas.
eb: antonica has a wide range of applications in many fields.
for example, here we see him play a successfully tongue against himself, and he's showing his ability to play.
here we see an antonica making new connections on a social network where we're continuously contacting friends and maintaining successfully the good network.
this ability to synthesize networks also applications in health care, energy, intelligence.
here you see an antarctica running fleeting fleet of ships, discovering successfully and using the panama canal to stretch out his journey from the atlantic ocean to the pacific.
using the model itself, antonica has a wide range of uses in self-defense problems, logistics and transportation services.
finally, we're here seeing anthropomorphic discovery and criticizing a cheap price plan, with a high price on the simulated financial market of the truth, and increasing the property that he runs on echoes.
this ability to organize risks will have widely applications in economics and insurance.
alex whitopia: so what you just saw is that a set of smart cognitive behaviors, like using tools and walking in a coherent and social collaboration, all follow one form, that lead a system to increase the future actions to the maximum frontier.
now, there's a deep magician here.
according to the beginning, there was always a concept that if we developed a robotic intelligence, there would be a robotic revolution.
we're going to revolve the mechanisms against us.
one of the major consequences of this work is that maybe for all these decades, we had the reverse notion of the robotic revolution.
it's not that machines are becoming smart in the beginning, and then they're built to great insight into the world.
it's exactly the opposite, that the tendency to control all future time is a more fundamental principle than the intelligence principle, that the aspect of public intelligence can actually be emitted directly from control, rather than from the opposite.
another important obstacle is the search for purpose.
i often ask, how can you explain the ability to goals in this frame
and the answer is, the ability to find targets that can be explained directly from this in the next area: as you go through a tunnel, a bottle in your future space, in order to achieve many other goals later, or as you invest in financial assurance, a little bit of your resilience in the short run in order to increase your wealth in the long term, that the search for the
it's a long-term motivation to increase your future behavior.
and finally, richard feynman, a well-known physicist, once wrote that if human civilization destroyed and was able to give us only one principle to help them rebuild civilization, that principle had to be that all the material around us is made from small elements that spoke each other when we get away from each other but then clicked off when we get close to each other.
my rendering to that statement is to give our grandchildren to help build artificial intelligence or to help them understand human intelligence, the following thing: intelligence has to look at it as a physical process that tries to increase future actions to maximize limits and avoid constraints in its future.
thank you very much.