i'm going to talk to you today about 30 years of engineering history.
this is a very big thing for the privatization of 18 minutes.
it's a complicated subject, so we're going straight to a complicated place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i'm from new jersey, i was six years old, and i was living there with my parents in a town called lingovone, and this was my bedroom.
at the corner of my room, there was a bathroom with my sister.
and with my room and the bathroom, there was a balcony over the living room.
and that's where everybody was gathering to watch tv, so every time i went from my room to the bathroom, everybody was seeing me, and every time i bathed and took out my gothic profile, everybody was seeing me.
i looked like this.
i was feeling weird, unsafe, and i hated that feeling.
i hated that walk, that balcony, i hated that room, that house.
and that's architecture.
it's finished.
that feeling, that feeling that i feel, that's the power of architecture, because architecture isn't mathematics and subtraction. it's those charged sensory intersections that we sense in places that we operate.
it's no stranger that we feel that way, because by the environmental protection agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
ninety percent of our time is surrounded by engineering.
that's a huge thing.
which means that engineering determines who we are in ways we're not essentially aware of.
what makes us naive is something, and it can be predicted very easily.
that means that when i show you a building like this, i know what you're going to think: you're going to think about power and stability and democracy.
and i know you're thinking that way because it's based on a building established 2500 cents from the greeks.
this is the trick.
this is the motivator that engineers use in order to create you have that emotional connection with the forms that plants build.
it's an emotional connection that we've been using for a very long time.
we used it 200 years ago to build the icon.
we used it in the 19th century to build art museums.
and in the 20th century in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young, stable soldiers, surrounded by ocean-basin-wide risk-taking.
this is a very useful thing, because building things is terrifying.
it's expensive, it takes a long time, it's very complicated.
and the people who build these things -- developers and governments -- are naturally afraid of innovation, and you'd better use just those shapes that you know you're going to respond to.
so we're finally getting data like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is a library of psychoanalyzing the public that was finished in 2004 in my hometown, and it's got, you know, it's got this circular thing, it's columns, it's red, and you can guess what you're trying to say in this building: children, property values and
but it doesn't have much similarities to what libraries are doing today.
in that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, it was finished building another library. it looked like this.
in seattle.
this library is about how we consume media in digital time.
they form a kind of public immunity for the city, a place to assemble and read and share opinions.
so how is it possible that in the same year, in the same country, two daughters, both libraries, are completely different
and the answer is that geometry works in terms of clock.
on the first side you find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing to the direction of building new technologies, studying new symbols, new solutions for how we live today.
so we're pushing and pushing so that we can all click.
we wear black clothes, we write down, and they think we're crazy, and we die inside because after all, we have no other option.
we have to go to the other side to share those symbols that you know you love.
you do this and you become happy, you feel like it's his life, and he starts testing back and forth and back and forth, and we've done this over the last 300 years, and certainly in the last 30 years.
thirty years ago, we just came out of the 1970s.
the engineers were then busy choosing something called brutal architecture.
it's related to concrete.
you can guess that.
small windows, humanitarian scales.
this is a very difficult thing.
so we got closer to the 1980s, and we started sharing these symbols.
the scorpion pushed the other side.
you take these shapes that you know you love and you talk them.
we add the dragon and we add the baseline and we use new materials.
so i love it.
you can't satisfy you with enough.
we take english cabinets and turn them into skyscrapers, so they can be glasses of middle ages.
the sizes grew bigger, contaminated and more severe.
it's become the size of the columns.
the retreat is becoming the size of the buildings.
that was crazy.
but in the '80s, it's great.
we all meet in commercial camps and we all move around to live in the suburbs, and there, in the suburbs, we can create geometry.
and these mountains can be medium or french or italian.
maybe it has infinite charity.
this is the post-docs idea.
that's the idea of symbols.
they're easy, cheap, because instead of building a place, we're creating memories of where it is.
because i know, and i know you all know, this is not my empire.
it's ohio.
so engineers are worried, so we start redefining the clock on the other side.
at the end of the '80s and early' 90s, we started selecting what we call the destruction movement of the destruction.
we started by throwing historical symbols away, and relying on new design technologies supported by the computer, and we came up with a bunch of new structures, from servers to shapes.
these are academic and difficult things, and they're not completely crazy. we're pretty good at it.
the real estate is marching out alone to go back to the other side.
and then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is the guggenheim bilbao of frankie's engineer.
and this building has radically changed the relationship of the world with engineering.
paul burger said that bilbao was one of those tagging marks when criticism and academics and general is completely about a building.
new york times considered this building as a miracle.
swimming in bilbao by 2500 percent after it's finished this building.
suddenly, everybody wanted one of these data: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, cleveland, sergio springfield.
everybody wanted a similar building, and my expedition became a researcher everywhere.
he's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how is it possible for these shapes -- the unit and the traditional -- how can they be around the world
this happened because the media was so successful at teaching us quickly that these shapes meant culture and tourism.
so we created an emotional response to these shapes.
also did every mayor of the world.
so every mayor knows that if they have cities like this, they have culture and tourism.
this phenomenon has with the beginning of the new millennium of some other superstar engineers.
he's got her opinion to lincoln, and what's happened with this little elite of engineers with the beginning of the millennium development was to start affecting the field of engineering as a whole, where digital media is starting to increase the speed that information is consuming.
think about how you consume engineering.
1,000 years ago, you had to walk into the neighboring village to see a building.
the speed of transportation: you can sail in a ship, take an airplane, be a driver.
technology speed: you can see it in the newspaper, or on tv, at the end of the day, we're all photographers, and the building spirit has been liberated from the site.
engineering is everywhere now, and that means that the speed of communication has finally achieved the speed of engineering.
because engineering is moving pretty fast.
it doesn't take long to think about designing a building.
it's about taking a long time, three or four years, and at that time it's going to design an engineer or eight or 100 buildings before you know whether the building has been made for four years or not.
it's not in engineering, it's in a feedback loop.
so we end up with data like this.
it's not just a brutal architecture move, it's a 20-year-old movement.
twenty years ago, we'd come up with data like this because we didn't know how much you hated it.
it's not going to happen again, i think, because we live on the edge of one of the greatest geometric revolutions since the invention of concrete, iron, or elevator, and what's up with the media revolution.
so my theory is that when you apply media per hour, it starts to move faster and faster, until you get to the maximum side effectively, and that really makes the difference between creativity and symbols, between each other, between engineers, between you and the public.
we can now create emotionally charged symbols of something completely new.
let me show you how this works from a project that i just finished my company.
and then we brought him up to dive into this building that was demolished.
this is a city center called downtown in vener ireland in new york.
it's a tourist collection.
we proposed a building that was about courage, which was different from all the data that the residents were used to, and we were scared and our clients were scared, and we created a series of real-world perceptions for settings and put it on facebook and put it on instagram, and we let the people start doing what they're doing: share, comment them
but that meant that two years before the building was finished, the building was already part of the community, and when the settings seemed to be completely identical to the final product, there would be no surprises.
this building was already part of the community, and then in the first summer, when people started sharing sides and sharing pictures of building on social media, it's not just a building anymore, it's becoming a media, because this isn't just a picture of a building, it's your pictures of this building.
and when you use it to tell your story, it becomes part of your narrative, and what you're doing is bringing the road to our collective memory, and creating these emotional symbols that are imprinted for us to understand.
that means we don't need greeks to fill what we have to think about engineering.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media not only changed our relationship to each other, but it also changed the relationship between us and data.
think for a moment in librarians there in lingo.
if that building was going to be built today, the first thing they were going to do was go online and look for "new libraries."
you're going to be surprised by the choices, about the creativity, and think more deeply about what the library is.
that's the ammunition.
that's the narcissistic one you can take with them to mayor lingo, and for people to mentor, let's say there's not one definition of what the library is today.
but let's be part of this.
the experiments are often given freedom to their tests.
everything is different now.
these mysterious creatures no longer use the words "omnivores" and are the hard ones, and they've never returned that publicly, that customer who's never accepted anything that we've never seen before.
engineers listen to you, and you're not afraid of engineering.
that means that the ribcage of the clock that swings forward and backwards from one way to another, from one movement to another, has no meaning whatsoever.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions to the problems that our society faces.
that's the end of the history of engineering, and that means that tomorrow's data will look a lot different than today's data.
what that means is that the old city's public spaces can be unique and designed for the way that a modern city works.
what it means is that our playground in brooklyn can be a playground there, it can't be a red history, as we think it might be a playground.
that means that robots are going to build our daughter, because we're finally ready to figure out what shapes we're going to produce.
it also means that the buildings will symmetry with the vibration of nature, not the other way around.
that means that times as many cars in miami beach in florida, they can be a place for sports and for kindness and you can also get out there late at night.
that means that three swimming engineers dream of the east river in new york, gather about half a million dollars together around their case, didn't even have one customer.
that means there's no smaller building than there is to create in it, like this little baby pavilion, it's powerful and there's such animals that it's designed to monitor.
and that meant not to be beautiful to be crazy, like this little ugly building in spain, where the engineers drilled in a hole, and they saved the cement around it, and when the concrete injected it, they invited someone to come and clean the straw so that they could not just pick up this little invisible room full of garbage and compartment.
which became one of the most ridiculous places to watch spanish crows.
because it doesn't matter if it's a cow from our data or a robot from our building.
no matter how i build, what matters.
engineers already know how to build green plants that are smarter and easier to use.
we were just waiting for all of you to like it.
finally, it's never been the other side.
take an engineer, i use an engineer, i work with us to design better data, better cities, because the standards are high.
not reflecting data in our society, but determining its knowledge through the most basic space: local libraries, the houses in which we raise our children, and the corridors they take from the bedroom to the bathroom.
thank you.
this is my niece siegel's daughter.
i just turned six and started walking.
and she's walking that great way, like all the kids in their first year, where they're going.
it's absolutely fascinating.
and one of my favorite things right now is to stare at herself in the mirror.
it certainly has to reflect it in the mirror.
he laughs, he trusts, he kills himself these big wet kisses.
it's a beautiful thing.
and all of her friends seem to do that, and my mother told me that i was also doing it, and that's why i have to think when i stopped doing it
when do we suddenly become uncomfortable with our appearance
because obviously we don't like our appearance.
every month, we're looking at 10,000 people on google, "am i ugly"
this is a fi. she's 13-year-old, and she lives in denver.
and like any teenager, we want to be crazy and acceptable.
it's a sunday night.
and she gets ready for school next week.
she's a little scared and confused because even though her mother tells her all the time she's beautiful every day at school, someone tells her she's ugly.
and because of the difference between what her parents say and what her peers say at school, we don't know who they are.
so you take a video of herself and you put it on youtube and you ask people to write a comment, "am i beautiful or ugly"
okay, so far, i've got 13,000 comments.
some of the comments were disgusted, and they didn't even bother thinking about it.
this is a teenage girl with a normal health appearance that receives rudders like this in the most vulnerable times of her life.
thousands of people spread videos like this, most teenage girls communicate this way.
but what did he do
well these teenagers, these days, are rarely alone.
they have to be on the web all the time, talking, sending messages and wondering.
and they get stuck, they get involved, and that never ends. we've never been there before, if we've been in this kind of constant, instant, instantaneous way.
and as one of the mothers told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
there is simply no privacy.
and the social pressures that correspond to this are cruel.
this environment of continuous connectivity to our children is trained to value themselves according to how many of the likes they get and the kinds of comments they receive.
there's no separation of life online and life out there.
it's hard to recognize what is real and what is fake.
and it's also very difficult to distinguish between what's original and what a digital manipulation of it is.
what's the important event versus everyday events
where are they looking for inspiration
let's see the kinds of images that fill the news sources of girls these days.
parents are very imaginative. they make platforms.
a victory of habituation re-drawn facial features, and we've been seeing hawks for rowing.
it's about the gap between the rats.
and jurisdictions encourage loss of appetite.
these trends have a physical view of women in the public culture.
it's not hard to know what girls compare to.
but kids aren't special about this either.
you see it aspiring for broad jaws and dead muscles like sports and singers, but what's the problem with all of this
of course, we want our kids to be raised as disabled, but a culture that's obsessed with shape, we show them.
by spending time and effort looking at their appearance as their social relationships and their physical skills.
they're getting their classrooms that start to melt away.
six out of 10 girls choose not to do a task, thinking they're not good enough.
we're not talking about secondary activities; we're also essential activities to sacrifice them as individuals and as contributors to society, about one percent of every teenager.
they're not involved because they don't want to.
i attached attention to their appearance of one in five notes of school when you're not satisfied, let's talk about choices when you think you're not looking good.
specifically, if you think you're not an agile.
your desktop would be below your classrooms.
now, those of you who don't worry about this are broadcasting in finland, the united states and china, regardless of your real weight.
to explain it more, we're talking about it.
you think about your question, not your real question.
without trust, he lowers the school level, and the health destroys when the teenager's trust is shifting less, he's exercising less, he's eating fruit and vegetables.
we make unhealthy diets.
it leads to eating disorders, and it decreases self-worth.
and that makes it even more affective to other people's opinions and it's exposed to depression, and all of these things make them more alcoholic and drug abuse.
and unhealthy eating and loading surgery and engaging in sexual acts and harmony.
the pursuit of an ideal body stimulates hospitals.
and our governments cost billions of dollars every year, and not compromise women who think they're obese.
it doesn't matter whether they're already hiring more work to run a job interview a day when we don't feel trusted.
let's think about what that does to our economy.
and what would you like to beat us with this
but how do we do that
talk only about problems.
it's not enough to solve them.
if we want to make a difference, we have to do something.
there are three ways to create change that are important to trust in the form that we should teach teenagers.
how to overcome appearance pressure is perfectly how they build their own self-esteem.
it's good to have programs that mean right now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come in with the right results, and i was shocked to know that a lot of these good programs.
we want to be unintended, and that's why we have to make sure that our kids don't get software, don't just leave positive effects.
it's always left an effect, and studies have shown that the best awareness programs are addressing basic aspects.
the first effect of family and friends and relationships is that we have the impact of media and celebrity, and then we dealt with peer-reviewed qualities, how we compare ourselves to others based on our forms and talk about appearance and self-esteem.
this is the key to anyone who's seriously educated and trustworthy.
education and quality is very important, but this problem requires every initiative to be a good role model for women and girls close to it.
and it challenges the reality that women show in our societies.
we don't have to judge the efficiency of the leadership through a slice or chest or a chest, or we're going to expect the success of the player's olympic sponsor because it doesn't manage its beauty.
we've got to see people doing things that don't look.
we need to look at the kinds of images that we publish and the comments we write in social networks.
we've got to build on people to the efforts they've made and the businesses they've made, not their shapes.
let me ask you when was the last time you had a mirror
and finally, we have to work together as communities and governments and entrepreneurs to change this culture and to show our children the self to appreciate and respect the individual and the difference.
you have to justify the people in the community as the tools of the people in the world.
and when we do that, then we can make change.
we want to create a world where our children feel free to be the best they can, where they consider them to be, don't think of them as what they want to do or achieve what they want in life.
think about what this will mean for anyone in your life.
who came to mind
is it your wife
i love you
your daughter
was he friction
your friend, or maybe it's the woman who's far away from you.
what would it mean for her to be free of that critical sound inside of her, which is her concern to make her livestock taller or thinner, or her smaller stomach or her leg, or her toe
what would it mean for her to overcome this and her potential for this
today, our culture is obsessed with the image of progress.
but let's see our children the truth.
let's show them that their appearance is just one part of their identity and that we love them for their self and their actions and for the feelings that we feel.
let's combine self-worth in our school curriculum.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to other people.
let's work together as communities of roots to governments to make children happy today, to make sure that they can change themselves tomorrow.
let's do that.
on the fifth of twitter, 1990, a man named mr. begged a hotel in manhattan and killed the rabbi kahn, the chief of jewish defense.
he wasn't convicted of murder, but when he was spending his time with a light bulb, he was planning on other men's threats to attack dozens of sites in new york city, including agreement and jewish and headquarters of the united nations.
luckily, these graphs were mapped by the fbi.
unfortunately it bombed in 1993 for the world trade center that didn't land.
he was convicted ultimately become involved in the process.
mr. insistence is my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, in pennsylvania in 1983, an egyptian engineer, and from a loving american mother, was a primary school teacher, and he was together to make me live a happy childhood.
i have my seven-year-old vision, and our family has been changing.
when my father showed me on the side of islam a few people, including the majority of muslims, they would not see him.
my own experience is that when you take people's time to communicate with each other, it doesn't take enough to realize that in total, we're all hoping for the same things in life.
but in each religion, in every religion, in every society, you will find a few people who are enthusiastic about their beliefs that they feel that they have to use all the means to hold others to live as they do.
a few months before he arrested, sat me down and explained to me that over the course of the last weeks, he and some of his friends were going to have time exercises in long island for the bullying goals.
and he told me i'd see him the next morning.
we got to the times square like the vermin, which was, without science from our group, observed by the fbi.
when my role came to shoot, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explain to me how i should target the target 30 yards away.
that day, i had another bullet that was launched by a little orange light that was on top of the target and what was surprising to all of us, especially for me, was that the whole goal had exploded.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and arabic said, "where is his son."
that way of that lion.
and apparently they exploded laughs at this comment, but it took a couple of years to understand exactly what they thought was funny.
they thought they saw the same destruction that my father was able to do.
these guys were convicted at the end of an end of a little 1500-pound truck of explosives on the underground floor of a northwest ski parking lot for the world trade center, elderly exploding that led to the next six people and more than 1,000.
these guys were my role models.
these were people whose "blind" means "blindness."
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, instability during my childhood hasn't really given me the chance to find older friends.
every time i start feeling comfortable to someone, it's a period that has to bring our bags to move to the next city.
and being the new student in the department, i often was vulnerable.
i was hiding about my classmates in the classroom to avoid my target, but it turned out, being the new boy in the room and the new hemispheres, was a good, ridiculous amputation.
so most of the time, i would spend my day looking at books and watching television or playing video games.
and for those reasons, i was lacking social skills, at the very least, and growing up in a angry home, and i couldn't prepare for the real world.
i grew up judging people based on arbitrary scales, like race or religion.
so what opened my eyes
one of my first experiences that was happening in my thinking was during the 2000 presidential election.
during my graduation program i was a member of the national council of young people in philadelphia.
my own group was focusing on youth violence, and being a victim of hackers most of my life, this was a subject that i was particularly excited about.
the members of the entire life trajectory were members.
one day, at the end of the council, i discovered that one of the children that i encountered was jewish.
now, it took me several days to show these details on the surface, and i realized there was no natural food between us and both.
i'd never had a jewish friend before, and frankly i felt proud that i could overcome a hurdle that i had served my whole life to believe that it was impossible to overcome.
a big recent transformation point when i found a guest worker at bush melder, who's a entertaining garden.
there, i met with people from different beliefs and cultures, and it turns out that that experience was essential to the evolution of my personality.
for most of my life, i've been told that homosexuality is religious, and therefore, all gay people have a negative impact.
and it happened to me, if i had the opportunity to work with gay actors in a show there, and then a little bit later i found out that some of them were kind, and some of them were cheaper, and some people were judged by others.
being a child, being a child, creating a kind of empathy for other people's suffering, and seems unusual to me to treat nice people in any other way other than what i would like to deal with.
and thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a kid with real life experience and dealing with people.
i don't know what it means to be gay, but i know very well what it means to be judged about something outside of my will.
then the "dylie sue."
so john stewart was telling me, every night i had to be honest with myself about my suffering and helped me realize that it had nothing to do with sweat or bears or or a sexual orientation of a personality.
sometimes the father's character was personal to me while i was in yesterday the need.
inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and being a jewish comedian has done a lot to make a research on my view of the world more than my parents did, and i don't have to lose that for me.
one day, i was talking to my mother that my worldview had begun to change, and she told me something i'd always carry in my heart as long as i'd be.
she looked at me with two tired eyes holding them up from sadness enough in his life, and she said, "i've been tired of hatred."
at that moment, i realized how much negative energy you required to carry that hatred within you.
you see abraham is not my real name.
"honey" where my family decided to cut off my father and start a new life.
so why was i going out into public and putting myself at a potential risk
well, it's simple.
i do this hope that someone might be forced to use violence some day you might listen to my story and realize that there's a better way, that if you're vulnerable to that violence and ideology, it's not upset.
instead, i chose to use my experience to fight against terrorism, against prejudice.
i do this for the victims of terrorism and their loved ones, pain and loss of pain that terrorism has forced them to live.
the victims of terrorism, i'm going to speak out loud against these craftsmen and who did what my father did.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not a struggle in religion or race, and that i don't have to follow my father's fault.
i'm not my father.
thank you. thank you, all of you. thank you, all of you. thank you very much.
now, you have a film that's shown in your head.
it's a wonderful multi-way film.
and it's shown in 3d view and the technology of the ocean sound of what it's seeing and hearing now, but that's just beginning.
your mouth has smell, taste, touch.
it has a sense of your body, your place, your hunger, your hunger.
it has emotions, of anger and happiness.
it also has memories, like the scenes of your childhood are turned on in front of you.
and this is a constant, unconscious comment on the current of your conscious thinking.
and at the heart of the movie, you're testing all this directly.
this film is your own consciousness stream, the subject of the experience of mind and the world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental realities of human existence.
each of us is conscious.
we all have an internal film, you and you too.
there's nothing we know a lot about directly.
at least, i know about my consciousness directly.
i can't be sure you're conscious.
and consciousness also makes life worthwhile.
if it's not conscious, it's nothing in our lives will be meaning or value.
but at the same time, consciousness is one of the most mysterious phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these inner films
why are we not just robots treating all of these inputs, and producing all these outputs, without choosing this inner film at all
now nobody has answers to these questions.
i would suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is subjective inherently.
consciousness is inherently selfish.
that's why there can't be science of consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century, this was the dominant view.
psychologists studied objectively, and neuroscientists studied objectivity, and nobody even remembered consciousness.
even 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little scientific research about consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, this is all starting to change.
neuroscientists like francis crick and physicists like roger porridge have said it's time for science to study consciousness.
and since then, there has been a real explosion, a flourishing for scientific research around consciousness.
and it was great. it was remarkable.
but it has some key constraints so far.
the hub of consciousness in recent years has been to look for mutual relationships, interrelated relationships between certain areas of the brain and certain areas of consciousness.
we've seen some of this kind of work from nancy kapster and the wonderful work i did a few minutes ago.
now we understand much better, for example, the kinds of brain regions that go with conscious experience of face or pain or happiness.
but that remains the science of mutual relationships.
it's not explanatory science.
we know that these regions of the brain work with certain kinds of conscious experiences, but we don't know why they work with them.
i'd like to illustrate this by saying that this kind of work in neuroscience is based on some of the questions we want to answer about consciousness, questions about what some of the brain regions do and they're linked.
but in a way, these are easy problems.
neurophysiologists have no criticism.
it's not really easy in problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't take the real ambiguity at the heart of this: why should all the physical processing in the brain have to be consistent with consciousness
why is there this inner movie
now, we have nothing to explain.
you might say, let's just give neuroscience a few years.
and it would take for another emerging phenomenon like traffic congestion, like torture, like life as well, and we'll find a solution for it.
the classic e.t. cases are all cases of emerging behavior, how traffic congestion behaves, how a hurricane works, how a living organism breeds, adaptations and eggs, all questions about objective work.
you can apply that to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human brain functions as emergent phenomena: how to walk, how to talk, how to play chess, all of these questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, questions become about attitudes among easy problems.
when it comes to hard problem, the question becomes, why is all this behavior equipped with a self-fulfilling experience
and here, the standard model of evolution, even the standard model of neuroscience, doesn't really have much to say.
now, i'm a scientific person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, and for a long time, i've mapped my head in the wall looking for a theory of consciousness in a sharp physical terms that may work.
but eventually i came to the conclusion that it didn't just work for systemic reasons.
and that's a long story, but the basic idea is that what we get from recent explanations with physical terms, and terms of brain depending on, are stories of how the system works; it's dynamics, and the dynamics that it produces, and it's great for solving easy problems how we behave, how we act, but when it comes
this is something completely new, and this is always another question.
so i think we're kind of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're familiar with that, but the physics of chemistry, the interpretation of chemistry, the interpretation of biology parts of psychology.
but consciousness doesn't seem to fit in this picture.
on the one hand, it's muslim that we're conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to contain our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness is now a kind of anomaly, and it's kind of a we need to integrate into our vision of the world, but we don't see how that's done yet.
in the face of anomalies like this, there might be a need for radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that looks crazy at the beginning before we can deal with consciousness science.
now, there's a couple suggestions of what these crazy ideas might be.
my friend dan dennett, who's here today, has one.
the crazy idea is that there's no hard problem of consciousness.
the idea of the inner movie all involves a kind of illusion or confusion.
in fact, all we have to do is explain objective functionality, brain behaviors, and then we have explained everything we need to explain.
well, i say i wish for him more strength.
that's the kind of radical idea that you need to explore if you want to have a reductionist theory of consciousness depends on the brain.
at the same time, for me and a lot of other people, this opinion is very close to denying the warehouse simply to be satisfied.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
in the remaining time, i want to explore two crazy ideas that i think may have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is essential.
sometimes it takes physicists some aspects of the universe with fundamental words: space, time, mass.
and they suppose basic laws that control them, like gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and laws are not projected from any fundamental level.
instead, she's found that she's qatari, and that's where we build the world.
now sometimes, the baseline list goes up.
in the 19th century, maxwell found that we cannot explain electromagnetic phenomena in terms of the current principles of space, time and mass and newton's laws -- he borrowed the fundamental laws of electromagnetic electromagnetism and election as a fundamental component by governance of those laws.
i think that's the situation we're in with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in existing basics, time, mass and charge, then, in terms of logic, we need to expand the list.
the natural thing to do is to assume consciousness itself as a fundamental, fundamental building block of nature.
it doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens your way to apply science to it.
what we need then is to study the fundamental laws that regulate consciousness, the laws that connect consciousness to other fundamentalities: space, time, mass, physical processes.
sometimes physicists say we want the basic laws so simple that they can be written on the front part of the t-shirt.
well i think something like that is the situation we're in with consciousness.
we want the basic laws so simple that we can write them on the front side of the t-shirt.
we don't know what those rules are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness can be global.
each system could have some degrees of consciousness.
it's sometimes called self-help, sometimes called pipeschi, "pan," referring to the public and "psi," referring to the mind, each conscious system, not just humans, dogs, rats, but even microbes, elementary particles, elementary particles.
even the photon has a certain degree of consciousness.
it's not that phonopods are intelligent or they think.
and it's not that the photons are a little anxious because you think, "unfortunately, i'm always moving close to the speed of light.
i could never slow down until the name of the flowers. "
no, not that.
but the idea is that photons may have some components of a raw self, some primitive precision of consciousness.
this might seem a little bit revolt to you.
i mean, why would anyone think like this
some motivations come from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is essential, such as space and time and mass, it's natural to assume it could be universal, as well as their condition.
it's worth remembering that although the idea is not obvious to us, it's less intuitive for people of different cultures, where the human mind is more connected to nature.
the deepest motivation comes from the idea that perhaps the most simple and powerful way to find the basic laws that connect awareness to physical processing is to connect consciousness to information.
when there is information processing, there is conscious.
treating complex information, as in humans, means complex consciousness.
and processing simple information means simple consciousness.
and what's really interesting is that in the last few years, the neuroscientist julio bobby took this kind of theory and developed it accurately with a mathematical theory.
it has a mathematical measure of the integration of information called phi, which measures the amount of information integrated within the system.
and the fbi is compatible with consciousness.
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of integrated information, a high degree of fi, a huge amount of consciousness.
in the mouse, there's a middle degree of information integration, it's still important, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when you get down to the maggots, the microbes, the particles, you get me the fbi.
they also show me the full amount of information, but they're still above zero.
in bobby's theory, there's still going to be non-zero-sum degrees of consciousness.
in fact, it suggests a fundamental law of consciousness: the higher the fi, the more consciousness.
now, i don't know if this theory is right, but it's actually, i think, the leading theory right now in consciousness, and it's been used to integrate a whole bunch of science data, and it has a beautiful property that it's actually very simple to write on the front part of the t-shirt.
the other motivation and the final thing is that a "general of self" can help us integrate consciousness into the physical world.
and many physicists and philosophers have noticed that physics is strangely abstract.
they describe the structure of reality using a set of equations, but they don't tell us about the reality that lies behind them.
as stephen hawking says, what do you put the fire in the equations
well, according to a "self-help," you can leave the equations of physics as it is, but you can make it half the flow of consciousness.
that's really what physics does ultimately, half the flow of consciousness.
from this perspective, consciousness is what puts fire in equations.
according to this view, consciousness doesn't bother out of the physical world as a kind of addition.
it's right there at the heart of the physical world.
and this view, i think, has a "public self" perspective, has the ability to change our relationship to nature, and it may have some very dangerous social and ethical consequences.
and some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i should eat anything that has consciousness, so i have to be vegetarian.
now, if you're supportive of the "general of self" and you take this view, you become very hungry.
so i think when you think about it, it's going to lead to changing your views, whereas what matters to moral symptoms and expressive norms, not really the reality of consciousness, but the degree of consciousness and complexity.
it's also natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.
how about the hysterical system of "hers," samantha
is it conscious
well, if you take the face of a "the generalist" view, it certainly has complex information processing and complex information, so it's very likely that the answer is yes, it's conscious.
if that's true, that raises serious ethical issues around the ethics of intelligent computer systems development and closing ethics.
finally, we may be asking about the awareness of the whole group, this planet.
does a country have its own
or at a more local level, are there an integrated group like the audience at ted, do we now have a special collective awareness of ted, an internal ted group that is different from these interior films for every part of our group
i don't know the answer to that question, but i think at least it's worth considering.
okay, so this is a "general self" view. this is a radical vision, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident in the initial crazy idea, which is basically more than my confidence in the second idea, which we generalize.
i mean, it raises a number of questions and a number of challenges, like how those small pieces of consciousness are added to the kind of complex consciousness that we know and love.
if we can answer those questions, we're going to walk the right path to a serious theory of consciousness.
and if you can't, this is probably the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we can't expect to solve it overnight.
but i think we'll eventually find a solution to it.
understanding consciousness is the real key, i think, to understand the universe and to understand ourselves, both.
we may just need the right crazy idea.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village in victoria.
growing up, she was normal.
i went to school and i heard with my friends that i had a fight with my young brothers.
all of that was normal.
by the time i was 15, one of the people in our local community called my family and wanted an archipelago to get a reward for the community.
and my dad said, "that's really cool, but there's only one obvious problem in that.
it didn't actually do anything. "and they were right about that, you know.
i went to school, i got a good grade, i had a small business after school in the salon of my mother to classify poetry, and i spent a lot of time watching "blood-free remaining" and "downton rosling."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but that was true.
i've never done anything outside of the box.
i wasn't doing anything that could be considered like a cigarette pull out of the equation.
years later, i was in the second high school in melbourne school, and i was 20 minutes before i started the legal class of 11, and a boy raised his hand and said, "ms., when are you going to start giving your talk"
and i said, "what word"
you know, i've been explaining to them about the preparation act for 20 minutes.
and he adds, "you know, your motivational speech.
you know, when people come to school, they usually say inspiring things.
"it's usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: this was the only experience of this boy with his own needs as a means of inspiration.
but we're not, for this boy and not that bear, i mean, that's true for many of us.
for many of us, disabled are not our teachers, our doctors, our students.
we're not real people. we're there for them.
and actually, i'm sitting on this stage and i look like i'm in this wheelchair and you're sort of expecting me to inspire you. right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i'm afraid i'll be very disappointed.
i'm not here to inspire you.
i'm here to tell you that we've been lied about disability.
yes, we suffered the false collaboration that deficit is bad.
it's something, and to live with deficit, it makes you extraordinary.
it's not bad. it doesn't make you special.
in the past few years, we've been able to deploy this lie even further through social media.
you may have seen images like this: "the only deficit in life is the bad behavior."
or this one: "i'm so unacceptable." actually.
or this one: "before we stop, try!"
these are just a bunch of examples, but there are more of these examples.
you know, you may have seen the little girl without a wiggling picture, holding the pencil.
or you may have seen a kid running on two satellite legs.
and these pictures, there's a lot of them, and this is what we call pornography.
and i use the term deliberately, because it embodiments one group of people for the benefit of another group.
so in this case, we embody disabled to the nonviolent benefit.
the purpose of these pictures is to inspire you, to motivate them to look at them and think, "well, whatever my life is bad, i can be worse.
i could have been that person. "
but what if you were that person
i didn't have the number of times when strangers approached me to tell me that they thought i was courageous, or inspiring, and that was before i had sort of done my work as an advertising show.
they'd invite me to get up in the morning and remember my name.
and this brings us to the tool of these images, these images bring in special needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they're there to look at them, and then think that everything isn't bad for you, to make everything that worries you in perspective.
and life as a disabled person is really, really hard.
we are overcoming some odds.
but those things are not the ones we think.
not things about our bodies.
i'm using the term "disabled" as it means, because i'm shared with what's called the social model of disability, which tells us that we are more disabled with our society in which we live from our bodies or our diagnoses.
and so, i've been in this body for a long time.
and i really love it.
we do the things that i need to do, and i've learned to use them on top of their capabilities as you did, and that's what kids in those pictures also do.
they don't do anything unnatural about nature.
they're using their bodies and at the very highest performance.
so, is it fair to bring them and envy them in this way, to publish them
when people say, "you're a source of inspiration," they mean peers.
and i know why that happens.
it's because of the lie, which they followed for us to lie, that disability makes you an extraordinary person.
we don't actually do that.
and i know what you're thinking.
you know, i'm here to make fun of inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god sheila, don't you ever give up some stuff"
and the thing is, yes.
i know from other disabled people all the time.
but i don't know that i'm more wrong than them.
i'm learning that it's a genius idea to use the airwaves to pick up things that have fallen from you. i'm learning this remarkable trick how to charge your phone battery through a wheelchair battery.
violence!
we're learning from each other's eggs, troops and what we're carrying, not against our bodies and our diagnoses, but against our world, our body and our body.
i really think that that lie to us from disability is a huge darkness.
it makes life hard for us.
and that saying, "the only disability in life is the bad behavior," because it's a nonsense, because it's not real, because of a social model of disability.
there aren't enough smiles of a ladder that turned it into an electrical chair.
first of all, smiling on tv isn't going to make the text written for deaf people.
there's not enough standing in the middle of a library and radiation with a positive card that will transform all those books into braille.
it's never going to happen.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the natural thing.
i want to live in a world where a 15-year-old girl in her room is sitting in her room watching "blood-free remaining" and she doesn't walk away with her, but she's a bad guy because she's watching a seat.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations of disabled people that we're just getting out of bed and remembering our name in the morning.
i want to live in a world where the real achievements of disabled people, i want to live in a world where a 11-year-old kid at caltech aren't very surprised because his teachers use the seat chair.
disability does not make you special, thank you. it tells you what you thought you knew it made you extraordinary.
what does the integrated reality and the soccer ball of hackers have to do with sensory communication
and what's the speed of flying syoto
unfortunately, i'm not only going to answer one of these questions today, so they chose to love you.
when most people think, actually, integrated, they think of the movie "maneuver," and tom krrrrr is blank slate in the air, but the embedded reality is not science fiction.
the integrated reality is something that's going to happen in our lives, and it's going to happen because we have the tools to do that, and people have to realize it, because the integrated reality is going to change our lives just as much as the internet has changed and mobile phones.
so how do we get to the integrated reality
the first step is the step i'm wearing right now, with google glass.
i'm sure google glass is familiar for many of you.
what might not be powerful is that google glass is a device that allows you to see what i see.
i'm going to let you experience what it feels like to be a professional athlete in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try and describe it to you.
i have to use words.
i have to create a framework to do that you're filled with in your own imagination.
with google glass, we can put this under its quality, and we can feel what the enemy in the field is at 100 miles an hour, the blood is in your ears.
you can feel what it's like to have a 250-pound man running around trying to cut your head in every book.
and i was on the receiving end of this and not feeling so good.
now, i have some footage to show you what it's like to wear google glasses under a helmet to give you that sense.
unfortunately, it's not footage from my local soccer role, because my period of soccer thinks that emergent technology is what happens when we float a submarine, but we -- we do what we can.
so, let's watch some videos.
ca: here.
oh, the collision. the collision is terrible.
hey, let's get a little closer.
right ready
come on!
ca: so as you can see, a simple sense of what it's like to hit you in a football field of view.
now, you might notice that there are some people who are not unhappy: the rest of the team.
we have a video of that from the university of washington.
the main middle player: here, rats 54! mice 54!
blue eight! blue eight! come on!
ah!
ca: again, that makes you a little bit closer to what it's like to be in the playground, but that's not even close to being in my local football role.
people want that experience.
they want to be in the court.
they want to be their favorite players, and they've already talked to me through youtube, and through twitter, they say, "can that apply to their main middle player
or the back player
we want that experience. "
well, once you have that experience with johnson and google glass, how the user can live more.
how do you step three
well, our step of that step is by what's called oculus, and i'm sure many of you are strong.
the october is described as one of the most virtual reality devices ever invented, and that's not an amazing victim.
i'm going to show you that this is not fake in this video.
man: ah! ah!
no! no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh my god! ah ah ah ah.
chris kallo: so this is a man's experience in a death train that is afraid of his life.
how would that cheerleader experience be when i showed it to a video clip of adrianne bergen that goes off across the line, covered with a powerful arm before he runs the earth
how would that cheerleader experience be when manshiyati is on the stadium and put the ball behind the network, or refrigerate the ball in wilburg
what would that cheerleading experience be like when it slips down the side of a mountain at over 70 miles an hour as an olympic climber
i think adult diapers can go up.
but that's not the integrated reality yet.
this is just virtual reality.
how do we turn into integrated reality
it turns into embedded reality, when trainers and managers and funds look at this information and the ownership of people want to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our team better"
how do you use this to win games "
because the teams are always using technology to win games.
they like to win. this gives them money.
so a brief historical glimpse of technology in my local football.
in 1965, polymer clinton put a major middle player in order to call the games faster.
they won the super bowl this year.
the other difference has happened.
the game saw more people because it became more interesting.
it was faster.
in 1994, my role put the local football player inside the base player's main player's rubble later.
the matches saw more people because they were faster.
it was more fun.
in 2023, imagine you're a player coming back to the body and you're offered your next game right in front of your transparent plastics that you already want.
there's no more worry about the causality of games.
no more worry about carrying game books to remind you.
just get out and interact.
and the trainers really want that, because the contradictory tasks cause the game to lose the coaches to hate games.
the loss of games gets you from work as a coach.
they don't want to.
but integrated reality is not just a well-written game book.
augmented reality is also a way of getting all that data and using it in real time to improve how you play a game.
how could that be
well, a very simple setup is a camera in every corner of the stadium that's pointed down gives you a vision from top to all the people down there.
you also have information from the quality sensors and the speeds of technology that we're working on right now.
you take all that information, and you make it flow out of your eyes.
the good difference makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and the shots allow them too much information.
that determines the good difference.
it's bad. now, your information technology department is as important as your scout.
and i met data not for geeks anymore.
it might also be the cylinder player who knows
what would that look like in the court
well, imagine you're the main middle player.
i took the tiger and i retreated backwards.
the stadium explores free-flow. suddenly, a bright flash on the left-hand side of the conductor teaches you that the invisible orientation is running towards you.
in the normal condition, you won't see it, but the integrated reality system teaches you to do it.
step towards the target.
another pulse you into the future of free.
the ball passes, but you hit the moment of passing.
the ball is far from its trajectory.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on the receiver, you see a patch of grass lighting and you know it has to modify.
you go, you grab the ball, you run, you touch the earth.
the body goes enthusiastically and encourages it every step along the way, watching every single perspective.
now this is something that will create huge marketing in the game.
we're going to make a lot of people watch, because people want this experiment.
employers want to be in the court.
they want to be their favorite player.
the integrated reality would be part of the sport, because it's so comfortable, it's just.
but the question i'm going to ask you is, is this all we can use in the real world
are we just going to use it for our food, for our enjoyment, for our pleasure as familiar
because i think we can use the integrated reality of something bigger.
i'm sure we've been able to use integrated reality as a way to promote sensory communication during the human species themselves, literally through the visualization of somebody else's being seen as somebody else's place.
we know what the value of this technology is for mathematical courses.
so that's where the revenues are for billions of dollars a year.
but what's the value of this technology to a teacher in a classroom trying to show how harmful is it from a health perspective
what's the value of this technology for an uganda or russian corruption, trying to show the world how to live under perturbation
what's the value of this technology for the writer, hannahedar or bill davis, and they're trying to inspire a generation of children to think about space and science more instead of the quarter reports per year and al kardashian
ladies and gentlemen, the integrated reality is coming.
the questions that we ask, the choices we make, the challenges we face, as usual, come back to us.
thank you.
i recently retired from digging the california streets after a 23-year service.
most of that time i've spent on dictatorships in the south of martin county, which includes the golden gate bridge.
the bridge is a creative building, known worldwide by san francisco, and the pacific ocean, and inspiring engineering.
unfortunately, it's also a suicide factor, where one of the largest areas in the world are trying to commit suicide.
the golden gate bridge opened in 1937.
joseph serra, the head of engineers, responsible for building the bridge that he quoted as he says, "the bridge is practically anti-investing.
trafficking from a bridge is not practical and not possible. "
but when it opened more than 1,600 people jumped to scare them off that bridge.
some believe that traveling between my bridge will lead them to another dimension, this bridge carries a romantic idea and it's going to fall out of his pain and experience, and the water at the bottom will was going to wash your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when the bridge uses suicide.
after free falls by four or five seconds, the body hits water at 75 miles an hour.
that trauma is crushing bone, burning and then biomaterials.
many die of collision.
now religion that doesn't die is generally floating around with no power, and then you know.
i don't think those who choose this way of suicide realize how awful death is that way.
this is the bond.
except for the links around the towers, there's 32 inches of iron for the bridge.
here most of these people stand before they kill themselves.
and from my experience, i can say that if you get to that one, and in the process of life, it's very hard to get it back.
i took this general picture of the past while this young woman was talking to the officer and she was meditating her life.
and i can tell you very happy that we managed to successfully get it back on the fence.
when i started working on the bridge, we weren't officially trained.
we were suffering from these callings.
it wasn't just bad for the people trying to commit suicide, but also for the officers.
it's been a long way since.
now, old c.o.s and psychologists are training new power.
this is jason grier.
i met jason on june 22 last year when she received a call for him that she was trying to suicide on the hill in the middle of the bridge.
i responded, and when i arrived, i watched jason talking to the bridge officer.
jason was 32 years old and he came up with a drone from new jersey.
in fact, he came here twice before new jersey to try suicide on this bridge.
after about an hour talking to jason, he asked if we knew the story of pandora.
if you remember in the greek mythology, russell created pandora, and sent her to earth with a box, then he told her, "don't open the box at all."
but one day, you can be curious from pandora, and push it to open the box.
i unleashed the pediatrics and the sides, and all sorts of evil versions of humans.
the only news in that box was hope.
then we asked jason, "what would happen if the box opened and there was no hope"
i was silent for a moment, and he was dead, and then a man.
this crazy guy, the smart guy from new jersey who's just old enough to commit suicide.
she spoke to my parents that night, and i think while i was talking to them, i didn't look like i had done everything i could, because the next day, the family pig called me to check.
jason was asked to do that.
the indirect damage to suicide affects many people.
i'm going to ask you this question: what would you do if one of your family members -- show you your friends, who love suicide
what would you say
how are you going to know what you're going to say
in my experience, it's not just talking but listening.
i listen to them.
no success, no blame, don't tell that person you feel it, because you probably don't feel it.
just to be there, it could be the turning point you need.
if i feel that someone thinks of suicide, we don't feel to face it and ask it.
one way to ask this question is, "other people in similar circumstances think about ending their lives; have you ever had these ideas"
the face of the person immediately can save his life and be a turning point for him.
some of the other signals that you can observe: people, believing life is horrific and it's never going to get better; disability, belief that there is nothing we can do about it; copying from social life; losing desire in life.
i had this talk a few days ago, when i got an email from a lady who wanted to read her letter to you.
she lost her son in january 19 this year, and she posted this mail just a few days ago, and after i approved it and shared it, i'll read you.
"hello, kevin. i expect you're at ted right now.
there must be a wonderful experience.
i think i should point at the bridge the week.
so i wanted to leave you with a note.
hopefully it will reach out to people and come home and tell their friends who tell their friends, etc.
i'm still missing a little bit of feeling, but i'm already beginning to realize that mike's moments will not come home.
mike was driving his car from nepal to san francisco to watch the san francisco team game 49 with his father in january 19.
but it hasn't reached forever.
i called down neumann and gave up his losses that night.
and the next morning, i came home and told me that mike's car was standing near the bridge.
and he noticed an eyewitness jumping off the bridge at 1: 58 p.m. last night.
thank you so much for watching those who were just for a very weak time to support themselves.
who here hasn't felt vulnerable even without suffering from a mental illness
it's very difficult to eradicate.
let me fight you.
the golden gate bridge was supposed to be the gulf of our beautiful gulf, not cemetery.
have a wish for you to sign this week, my jaw. "
i can't imagine her courage to go over the bridge and walk down the path that i've been asked that day, and only to encourage her to survive.
i want to introduce you to a man who i described with hope and courage.
on march 11, 2005, i responded to a start on the radio as likely as trying to suicide on the sidewalk passage near the north tower.
i ran my motorcycle on the pedestrian passage, and i noticed that guy, kevin bertie, standing on the sidewalk passage.
when he saw me, he chose the pedestrian barrier to the pedestrian, and stood on that little tube that wraps on the tower.
and all the way up to the next hour and a half, i listen to kevin and he's talking about his desk.
kevin decided that day to go back to that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, his gift.
"this is a new beginning, this is a new life."
but i asked him, "what was it that made you come back and give life and hope another chance"
you know what he told me
he said, "you're listening to me.
she left me speaking, and just joined me. "
shortly after that incident, i got a letter from kevin, and here's the message with me right now, and i'd like to read it to you.
"dear mr. berners, nothing will combine what happened on march 11, but you're one of the reasons why kevin is here.
i'm totally afraid that kevin was looking for it.
he's been diagnosed with a psychiatric disease that he's dealing with regularly.
i built kevin when he was six months old, and i didn't know at all his inherited wells, but thank god, we know that now.
how to get back, we say.
we freeze god for you.
the process and the city for you, paravola pernetta. "
and at the bottom of the letter i wrote, "hammer, when i went to san francisco public hospital that night, they'd written your name on the patient.
i swear that i wanted so much to correct that mistake. "
today, kevin is a crazy father and a powerful member of society.
we speak honestly about the events of that day and about being in the hopes that the cause of others inspires.
it's not just something i've had in my work.
it's a personal thing.
my grandfather's older than himself.
even though that verb is over and over, it has given me the chance to recognize it.
that's what suicide is doing.
most evaporators, or those who think suicide, don't hurt someone else's performance.
they just want to end the special mission.
usually, it's done in three ways: sleep, drugs or alcohol or death.
during my work, i responded and involved in hundreds of calls trying to suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i've been responsible for have lost only two conditions, but two cases are significant.
one was jason.
the other one was a man who talked to him about the clock.
and as i talked to him, my hand shouted three times.
at the final shuttle, he looked at me, and he said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
and then he jumped.
happy, completely horrified.
i want to tell you also, the vast majority of people you meet on that bridge don't get suicide.
in addition, the few who jumped off the bridge and lived and managed to talk about their experience, that one or two percent, most of them said that at the moment they chose that barrier they knew they had made a mistake and wanted to live again.
what i tell people, the bridge isn't just martin about francisco, but it connects people together too.
that connection or the bridge that we create, that is something that each of us has to fight for.
the suicide is preventable.
there is help, there is hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different from what you are, but, inside you, you know who you are, and that question breaks into you: how do you become
i might be unique about it, but i'm not alone, i'm not alone at all.
so when i became a fashion platform, i finally felt i would achieve the dream i'd always dreamed of since i was a child.
my foreign personality corresponds to my inner truth, with my own self.
for a lot of complicated reasons, i'll come to her later, when i look at this picture, then, i felt that i achieved it. i made that happen. i got it.
but during october, i realized i was still only at the beginning.
all of us were put into boxes by our parents, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even our own bodies.
some people have the courage to break that, not accept the boundaries that are imposed because of their skin color or because of beliefs around them.
these people are the continuous source of the status quo, of what's currently accepted.
in my case, in the last nine years, some of my neighbors, some of my friends and colleagues, even my agent, didn't know about my history.
i think, mysteriously, that's what's called the misery.
and this is secret.
i've been recorded at birth as a boy based on the shape of my reproductive organs.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, wandering around the house, i always put a t-shirt on my head.
my mother was asking me, "how do you wear that t-shirt on your head all the time"
i was like, "mom, that's my hair, i'm a girl."
i knew how to self-define.
sex, and it's been completely unchanged. it's completely unchanging, but we now know it's much more flexible, intricate and mystical.
because of my success, i didn't have the courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world works, which we hope to experience.
every day, i'm so grateful that i'm a woman.
i have a mother and a family who kills me as much as i would like to be.
many are not that fortunate.
there's often an age in asian culture celebrating the awful mystery of sex.
there's a god that leads to compassion.
there's the hindu god, the migration goddess.
and that's when i was eight, i was in celebration in the philippines with these secrets.
i was at the front of the theater, and i remember, this beautiful lady in front of me, and i remember that moment, something inside of me saying, this is what i want to be.
so when i was 15, i still had a boy girls, and i met a woman named b.p.
she was the manager of an exposure agency.
that night she asked me, "how didn't you join the beauty contests"
she convinced me that if she wanted to do that, she would cost the tape fee and clothes, and that night, she won the swimming clothes and the best in long-term dress and took the second center in the competition between 40 participants.
that moment changed my life.
and all of a sudden, i was introduced to the world's beauty competition.
and it's not used to be the first profession to be the king of transgendered beauty, but i took the opportunity.
so from 15 to 17 years, i participated in most of those competition, so that i participated in a competition that was literally going on in a mushroom truck. or again, a competition that was sitting next to a rice field, and when it rained, and in the philippines it had to take the competition to move into one of the people's homes.
i lived with the strangers, especially when traveled to districts in the philippines.
but, more importantly, i met some of my best friends from that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said that i had been approved to order access to america, which means that i could move to america.
it carried that.
i told my mother, "mama, i am fun.
here with my friends, i love to travel, and i'm a beautiful queen. "
but two weeks later, she called and said, "do you know that in america you can change your name and sex"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also said to me that i would put a double e letter in my name.
she also had me when i underwent surgery in thailand in my 19th year.
it's amazing, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand their performance, it's one of the best and highest level of safety in those surgery.
and then in the united states, we have to have surgery before we change the name and the army.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember when i wanted to have a driver's license in california, and my name was gibby and the army "my son."
that was a moment of power.
for some people, personal identity is to drive or to get alcohol, to me, was my license to life, to feel the bible.
and all of a sudden, i was scared with a tail.
i felt that i was able to achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a dancer.
many are not fortunate.
i think it's because of this woman named apple butler.
she's from new york, and she's a young lady who lives bravely, but hatred surrounds her life.
and for the majority of my community, this is really our life.
our suicide rate is 99 times higher than the general average.
on november 20th, we're organizing a global stance of male transformational day.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who prayed and stood against injustice.
this is marshallis johnson and sylvia reyra.
today, this particular moment, this is my true moment.
i could no longer live my truth for myself and my alone.
i'd like to give the best to help others live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, exposed, even one day, there's no need to stop the 20 november.
the inner truth made me accept myself.
can you
thank you very much.
thank you very much. catherine solz: jennia, a quick question for you.
i'm wondering what you're going to say, especially for parents, but more broadly, for friends, family, for anyone who finds themselves in a confrontation with a child or someone who's confronted or passive about the sex that's identified, what can you say to that family, to help them become better, arrested and
jc: of course, right. first of all, i'm very lucky.
the support system, especially with my mother's support, and my family, itself was very powerful.
i remember every moment i'd train a woman who'd be wounded, i'd mature them, or sometimes when they call me and tell me that their parents don't accept that. i would raise the phone and call my mother, "mom, can you talk to that woman"
sometimes it doesn't work, but that's just sex in our hearts, right
i mean, we've all been classified when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start that conversation is that sometimes the certain sex we don't agree. and so there has to be space that people can define themselves, and that conversation we have to have has to be with parents, and colleagues.
the transgendered movement is still at the beginning, compared to how gay people started.
it's still a lot to do.
there must be an understanding.
there can be room for wonder and ask questions, and i hope all of you will be my allies.
kt: thank you very much. that was great. jl: thank you.
in many male and tribal societies, parents are often known to their children, but i'm one of the few who know their daughter, and i'm proud of this.
she started her campaign for education and her rights, in 2007, when she was forced for her efforts in 2011, and the national peace prize elected the peace prize became very famous in her country.
first of all, my daughter, but now, i'm her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at human history, the story of women is a story of injustice, inequality, violence and exploitation.
you see, in male societies, from the beginning, when a house is born, and it doesn't celebrate it.
she's not uncomfortable with her, either her mother or her son.
jabbar baton bayon, mama's maternity.
mother is very uncomfortable for her birthday.
when the first girl is born, the first daughter, the mother is very sad.
when the second daughter is born, the mother is shocked, and when she's expected to be born a male son, but a third girl is born, the mother feels guilty.
it's not just the mother who suffers; it's also the girl, the new baby, when she gets older, she also suffers.
at the age of five, when you have to be in school, the girl stays at home while her brothers go to school.
and even 12 years old, in a way, live a good life.
we can kidnap.
we can play with her friends on the streets, and we can move on the streets like the butterfly.
but when she becomes a teenager, when she gets into her 13-year-old, she's enjoying the house without compensation.
it heats up four walls between them.
they're not free anymore.
it becomes something called the honor of her son, brothers, brothers, family, and if you move the limit of that honor, it might be killed.
and it's interesting that a desirable honor, not only affects the life of a girl, but it also affects the lives of males in her family.
i know a family of seven brothers and one sisters, and that one brother, migrated to the bay countries, so that he would earn his life for the seven and his mother's brother, because he believed it would be worthy if i learned the seven brothers and fathers from home to earn their own living.
this brother, healthy enough to enjoy his life and happily brothers for the so-called honor.
there's other habitats in male communities called submersibles.
"good girl" is supposed to be very quiet and very modest and very printable.
this is the standard.
the good girl must be very good at it.
it's supposed to be silent and to accept her son's decisions and read more of them, even if she doesn't like them.
if she's married by a man who doesn't like him or a young man, she has to accept that, because she doesn't want to look at her as "inherent".
if she gets married at a very young age, she has to accept that.
otherwise they would not call it a printing press.
and what happens eventually
in the words of poetry, they're promoted, put in bed, and then there's more sons and furniture.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, she's going to know her daughter's psychology and the same honor lesson for her children.
this is a long-lasting ring.
ladies and gentlemen, a situation of millions of women can change if we think differently if we think about women and men differently, if women and men in male and killer societies in developed countries, if they can break down some family habits and community, if they can abolish racial laws in their countries, which are against basic human rights for women.
they are brothers and sisters, when i was born mall, and for the first time, believe me, i don't like newborn babies, i'll be honest with you, but when i looked in her eyes, believe me, i got a big honor.
and before he was born long, i thought of her name, and i was fascinated by a legend of his legend in afghanistan.
her name was malali from manhattan, named my daughter ali.
a few days after i was born mola, my daughter was born -- my uncle came home and brought the family tree, the bush tree, looked at the tree, and saw that it tracked the entire 300-year history of our ancestors.
but they were all men, and i picked up my film, added a line to my name, and i wrote "mola."
and when she got older, she was four and a half years old, recorded in my school.
so you might ask, why do i remember recording it in a school
i have to mention this thing.
this might be an implicit concept in canada, and in america and in many developed countries, but in poor countries, in male communities and tribal societies, this thing is an important event in the life of the house.
to go to school means to know her identity and her name.
the acceptance of school means that it enters the world of dreams and the world of finance, where they can discover their potential in their future lives.
i have five sisters, none of them can go to school, but you'll be surprised. it's two weeks ago, when i was filling the canadian gravel, when i was filling up the family section of demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason for that is that i haven't seen my life -- they're all written in a document.
that's why i got invited to appreciate my daughter.
the thing that my father couldn't afford to give to my sisters, i thought i should change them.
i've always estimated intelligence and verbalism that my daughter has.
i would encourage her to sit with me when my friends would come.
i would encourage her to go with me to many meetings.
and all of these medical values, which i was going to instill in her person.
it didn't just have them. it was only for me.
i've turned all these medical values to my school students and boys alike.
learning was used as a means of liberation.
i learned my student, i learned my students from girls, not to learn the food lesson.
my students taught me not to learn a lesson called a fake honor.
my dear brothers and sisters, we were striving for extra rights for women and we were struggling to get more, more space for women in society.
but we have a new phenomenon.
it was human rights and specifically women's rights.
it was called "order."
it means completely exclusive to share women in all political, economic and social activities.
hundreds of schools are proud.
she stops girls from going to school.
and women were forced to not be the architecture and they were not allowed to go to the markets.
the musicians took away the girls and the singers killed.
millions were suffering, but fewer people were talking, and it was the most terrifying thing to be surrounded by people like those who were killing and muddling, and to be talking about your rights.
it was really the most terrifying thing.
at the age of 10 years, i stood up, i stood up for education.
i wrote a note for the bbc blog, and she volunteered herself for documentaries for the new york times, and i talked about every platform that i could talk about.
and the voice was the most powerful.
her voice had spread all over the world.
and that was why the taliban couldn't afford it, on october of 2012, shot on their heads nearby.
this was the day of the judgment for my family and i.
the world turned into a big black hole.
when my life and death had been, i whispered in my wife's ear, "did mom get what happened to my daughter and your daughter"
but suddenly she said, "please don't touch yourself.
i stood on the right side.
you've put your life at stake for the right, for peace, for education, your daughter was inspired by you and i joined you.
both were on the right track and god will protect them. "
these few words meant a lot to me, and i didn't ask that question again.
when she was a mola in the hospital, she was very, very painful and she suffered from headaches because her face was cut, i would have seen a shadow in my wife's face.
but my daughter never complained.
she was saying to us, "i'm fine with my fan of fanatics and my sandwich in my face.
i'll be okay, please don't worry. "
it was our instincts and our priests, and it was our qualities.
my dear siblings, we've taught the resilience in the harshest, i'm glad to share with you that although it's a symbol of child's rights and woman, it's like every 16-year-old girl.
she cryes when she doesn't complete her homework.
they talk to their brothers, and i'm very happy with that.
people ask me, what's the thing that's special about brenting me that makes me so bold and so courageous that i've got to talk and be balanced
and i say, don't ask me what i did.
but ask me what i didn't do.
i didn't tell her wings. that's it.
thank you very much.
thank you very much. thank you.
i had a brain surgery 15 years ago, and since then, brain surgery has become passionate for me.
i'm actually an engineer.
first of all, let me just say that i recently joined the google moonshot group at the google x and the surgical science i'm going to talk about, is work i've just done before i go to google and on the side.
well, say, there's a stigma when you have surgery in the brain.
is it still smart or not
and if the answer is no, can you gain intelligence again
after my neurobiological surgeon, part of the brain, i've got to deal with that.
it wasn't part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was part of the fertilizer in the center of the brain that controlled the hormones and the main neurotransmitters.
right after the surgery, i have to decide how much drugs i have to take every day, and if i don't want to eat these materials, i'll die within hours.
every day, 15 years ago, every single day i had to decide the combination and the mixing of chemicals, and take them, to survive.
and you had a lot of hard decisions.
but fortunately, i'm passionate about experimentation, and so i decided to try and find the best doses because there was no obvious reference for that and better.
i started experimenting with a couple of clips, and i was shocked to see how a small change in the mixture occurred to me, my feelings about my self, my actions to others.
one of the exciting positions: for two months, i actually did a good measure of doses and psychotic drugs for a 20-year-old man, and i was shocked by how my ideas changed.
i was angry all the time, and i constantly think of sex, and also the smartest person ever, and also -- -- -- and of course, over the years i've met a little bit, or maybe a little bit of a level of that thinking.
it was my case extreme.
but, to my surprise, i wasn't trying to be a fan.
indeed, i was trying to be, with some sense of security, to solve a problem that i faced in front of me, but that didn't work.
so i couldn't possibly do that.
i've changed the doses.
but, that experience, i think, gave me an appreciation for men and why it might happen to them and also my understanding of men has gotten better ever since.
what i've been trying to do is adjust and parallel hormones and neurotransmitters and tranquility to try to reclaim my missing intelligence after disease and surgery. my creative ideas, and paralyz ideas.
and i often think through the pictures, and even when that was and was coming to get these brain images that i used in the prototypes, if you will, my ideas, experience different ideas of size, and unusual experience.
this kind of thinking is not new.
so philosophers like "hunter," and "desperate" and "hubbill," watch it similarly.
all of them thought that mental images and ideas were the same thing.
and there's a paradox of that now, and a lot of debates about how the work of the mind works, but to me it's simple: mental images, of the majority of us, are essential to creative thinking and creation.
so a few years later, i balance myself and i have a lot of mental images with a lot of elegance and analysis of myself support.
and right now i'm working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to the computer screen faster
can you imagine, if you could, a filmmaker can only use it and get it out of the world
or a musician who can get the music out of his brain
these are amazing and powerful possibilities for creators to point out at the speed of light.
and the truth is, despite obstacles to do this is to expand the perception of the brain scanning systems.
so let me give you a reason why i think we're kind of close with your thinking with two recent experiments from the best neural semester.
they both use functional mri technology to visualize the brain, and this is a picture of the brain that's given from gorgon, ganus and his colleagues at harvard.
in the left-hand pole, the brain image of a human being is raining.
the middle columns show the same brain scanner as you can imagine and see the same picture.
the column on the right produces middle and left combines, and it shows that the difference is barely zero.
it's been repurposed on many people, and with many different pictures, with the same result always.
the difference between seeing an image and imagining the same image, there's almost no difference.
big, let me show you the other experiment, and it's introduced from the jacques lab at ucla university.
they could decode the waves of the brain and turn them into a visual field that we could perceive.
and let me introduce you to that.
in this experiment, people have been shown hundreds of hours of video clips from the site doing a visualization of brain activity to create a library more than the reactions of the brain to collect clips.
and then a new film is displayed with new images, new people, different animals in it, and in the process it's scanned again.
computer, we only use scanning data and we encrypt that brain activity to show the actual imaginary image of people who are watching.
on the right-hand side, you see computer analysis, and on the left-hand side, the actual video.
the result is astonishing.
we're very close to doing that.
you just need to improve accuracy.
now remember when you watch a picture versus imagine the same image, that gives the same brain scan.
it was done with the best resolution of the brain scanner right now, and the accuracy of those scanners actually evolved thousands of times over the last few years.
so we need a thousand times more resolution to have a much deeper picture glimpse.
how do we do that
there's a lot of technologies for that.
one of them is, break the skull and call directly electrodes.
i don't like that.
there's a lot of imaging techniques being displayed, some of them are equipped by themselves, but depending on the current mri success, one needs to ask, is this the end of the road to this technology
the conventional wisdom says that the only way to get more accuracy is with a bigger magnet, but through just the larger magnet, it provides some extra improvements of accuracy, not a thousand times what you want.
i'm going to give you an idea instead of a bigger magnet, to make a better magnet.
there's a lot of technologies that are introduced in nanotechnology when they're applied in magnetic industry, they're produced in a new category of magnets. and with this technology, we can get very detailed, clear patterns of magnetic fields in all parts of the brain, and with that, we can get three-dimensional interface combinations to
we can create more sophisticated combinations with very simple modification parts -- sort of like sprinkling.
so why is this important
many efforts in magnetic resonance in years have gone to industry more sizes, more sizes, right
and yet many improvements in the accuracy of photography actually came from smart and creative solutions to encryption in fm and receptors in the mri systems.
and also, instead of a unified magnet, we use a pattern magnet, plus fm waves.
so, mri patterns integrate the fm radio waves and processors that can dramatically increase the information that we can extract from one survey.
in addition, we can describe everything we've learned about brain structure and memory to get improvement by a thousand times we need.
and using fmri, we can measure not only the blood flow, but measure the hormones and the neurotransmitters that we talked about in the beginning and also maybe the direct neural activity, which is the dream.
a marketplace can transform our ideas directly into digital media.
can you imagine being able to transcend language and communicate directly through human thoughts
what can we do then
and how else can we learn to deal with the realities of human ideas that have not been filmed
we think the internet is big.
these are big questions.
it may be a non-resistant way of inflating our ideas and skills.
and indeed, this same tool could lead to treating alzheimer's and diseases like this.
we have enough tests to open the door.
no matter, last year, will this happen in 150 years
it's hard to imagine that it would take longer.
we need to learn how to do this step together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about going out, not as usual, not about homosexuality.
i think we all have secrets.
it might be your company to tell someone you love for the first time, or tell someone you're pregnant, or tell someone you have cancer, or start any other difficult conversation you might go through in our lifetime.
every talk about evil, it's a difficult talk, and although our topics may be so different, the experience of living and free from closing is a global experience.
it's scary and it's frightening, but we have to do it.
a few years ago, i was working at the south sandwich cafe, and it's a local restaurant in the city, and during my work, i was making a very severe struggle for feminine triangles: like not having a peer-reviewed it from my "daddy dekurt" songs.
and depending on the threat in pants' "the short one" and how recently i've been created, the question is often spreading from me, usually by a little boy: "are you a boy or a girl"
and there'd be a embarrassing silence at the table.
my jaw broke a little bit too far, holding the coffee pot in a little bit more.
the father's moving a papers on a confusing newspaper and the mother releases his look at her child as much as the ears.
but i'm not saying anything, and i'm still in control.
i arrived at a point where every time i walked to a table where there was a three- to 10-year-old child, i was ready to fight.
and this is a terrible feeling.
so i promised myself, next time i would say something.
and i'm going to go into that tough competition.
so, within weeks, it happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
silence is familiar, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all the precious women's courses at this table. i've got a quote to build frieda.
i have a quote by gloria steinem.
so i have a little bit of vaginas for her call.
so i took a deep breath, and i looked down, and who's staring at me is a four-year-old girl in a pink, not a challenge for a feminist, just a kid who has a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another deep breath, and i sat down and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of confusing.
my hair is as short as a boy, and you wear my boyfriend's clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear a pink, and sometimes you want to wear your sleeping clothes
well, i'm the kind of girl who won more in comfortable day clothes. "
and she looked at the baby carefully, without any difficulties to remember, and she said, "my favorite day is purple with fish.
can i get a train, please "
and that was it. just, "oh, well, you're a girl.
how about that train "
it was the easiest difficult conversation i ever had.
and why because cotton and i, we were both real together.
so many of us, i lived in a few tanks of my life, and yes, most of the time, it happened that my walls were rainbow.
but inside, in the darkness, you can't tell what color these walls are.
you just knew what it felt like to live inside a closet.
so really, my clothes are not different than you or you or you.
sure, i'm going to give you 100 reasons why my experience was harder than your experience, but here's the shark link: a hard word is not a bad word.
the difficulty is the difficulty.
who can tell me to explain to someone that you've declared your peers is harder than telling someone you just deceived them
who can tell me that a story that's more difficult than telling your five-year-old child that you're heading towards divorce
there's nothing harder. it's just hard.
we need to stop changing our problems with other people's problems in order to achieve ourselves or alleviate our problems and raise the same fact that we all suffer from difficulties.
at some point in our lives, we all live inside tanks, which might feel safe, or at least safer than we are behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, no matter what your walls are made, the closet is not a place to live.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
for me, i've had a kind of horse tail, a beautiful, shoeful toothpick.
i wasn't that stagnant triangle ready to battle with any four-year-old child coming into the cafe.
i was frozen in fear, embedded in the angle of my stone, holding the gay tribe, and footing on any movement is the most horrifying thing i've ever done.
my family, friends and strangers -- i've spent my life trying to satisfy them and not avoid their medicine, and now i'm turning things upside-down.
i've been burning the pages of the scenario that we've been keeping track of for a long time, so if we don't get away with that bomb, it's going to cut you off.
one of the most live memories i've ever given was bombs at my sister's wedding ceremony.
it was the first time that they had a large number that they knew that i was gay, and as i was doing the banks, in tony black and high singers, i was wandering around the tables and then i stopped a table that my friends were sitting on, people that knew me two years ago.
and shortly after that, one woman said, "i love lebanon!"
then the homosexual war started.
"x, have you ever gone to castro"
"well, yeah, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we haven't been there before, but we've heard it's amazing."
"a, do you know anthony with a haircut
he's a really good guy and he never talked about his girlfriend. "
"n, what's your favorite television show
our favorite show my favorite: will and will.
and you know who loves jack.
jack is our favorite. "
and then one woman, confused, wanted to show up her support, followed my view that she was standing in my classroom, and eventually she said, "well, sometimes my husband wears a pink shirt."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody was getting their bombs.
i can go back to my girlfriend's lgbt table and i'm going to reframe them, their disability to naive them by jumping through lesions of homosexuality that i brought with me, or i can empathize with them, and i notice that maybe one of the hardest things they've ever done, that
obviously, it was easy to point out how they felt.
they stood up much more difficult and acknowledged the fact that they were trying.
and what could someone advise but not try
if you're aiming at honesty with somebody, you've got to be honest.
so sharp conversations are still not my strength point.
ask anyone who is promised.
but i get better, and i follow what i like to call the three principles of the girl.
now, please look at it through somebody like me, but do you know what it takes to basically go out and advertise the same thing.
number one: be originally.
take the armor. be yourself.
the kid at the cafe wasn't carrying arms, but i was ready to fight.
if you want somebody to be honest with you, they need to know you're bleeding too.
number two: be clear. just say it. break down barriers.
if you're like me, admit it.
if you told your mother that maybe you could be gay, they would have hope to change that.
don't give them that sense of false hoping.
and number three, and most importantly, don't apologize.
you're telling your investigation.
we never apologize to that.
some can call on the road, so, apologize for your actions, but never apologize for your truth.
indeed, some might avoid you, but that's about them, it's not about you.
this is your expectations, not your expectations.
that story, not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you wanted to write.
so the next time you find yourself in the closet, the blacks hold your tribe, i know we've all experienced it before.
and you might feel so lonely, but you're not.
and we know it's hard, but we need you here, no matter what the walls are made of, because i guarantee you that there are others staring at the key holes in their tanks looking at the brave spirit to open the door, so that person and showed the world that we're bigger than our closets and that this closet is not a person to live in
thank you, boulder. enjoy your names.
interesting -- what is it
if we look at the evolution of perspective to intelligence, one of the first examples was the famous quote by jerusalem dekenschurcha: "the question of whether a machine can think of as much as whether a submarine can swim."
now, edinburgh, when i was like this, he meant to be a declaration for the first computer scientists, like alan berger.
but, if you look back and you think about what are the biggest innovations we can make us able to build artificial pulses that fly around, we find that only by understanding the underlying physical mechanisms of swimming and flying and building these machines.
and so, a few years ago, i started a program to try and understand the fundamental physical mechanisms that lie in intelligence.
let's take a step back.
let's first start with a thought experiment.
imagine that you're an alien that doesn't know anything about biology or neuroscience on earth or intelligence on earth, but you have great telescopes and you're able to see the earth, and you have a very long life, so that you can see the earth over millions, billions of years.
and i saw a really weird effect.
i've seen, in the millennia, that the earth is constantly being beaten up by asteroids, and that at some point, it's pointed out for reason, 2,000 years after christmas, that the asteroids that hit the earth that are supposed to collide with have vague or exploded before they hit the ground.
now of course, as the people of the earth, we know why we might be trying to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent collision.
but if you're an alien that doesn't know any of this, and you don't have any concept about earth intelligence, you're forced to make a physical theory that explains how, up to a certain point in time, the asteroids that are defeating the surface of a planet that have inevitably stopped doing it.
so i claim this is the same question of understanding the physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program that we had a few years ago, i looked at a variety of subjects in science, and in many areas, which were going, i think, to a mechanistic, lonely mechanism.
in cosmology, for example, there have been many different topics that show us that our universe seems to be organized in a very precise way to develop intelligence, and, in particular, to develop cosmic conditions that increase the highest diversity in the potential future.
in games, for example, in a phrase game -- everybody remembers in 1997, when i was beaten by the ibm kasparov in chess -- a few people realize that in the last 10 years, in a game, it's a much more challenging game, because it has a much more branchy worker, also started to summarize the computer game
they are technologies that are trying to increase future options as much as possible during play.
ultimately, in motor planning, there are many new technologies that are trying to exploit the ability of robots to increase the freedom of future behavior to the extreme boundaries in order to achieve complex tasks.
and so, taking all of these topics and combining them together, i wondered, a few years ago, is there a quantitative technology that we could isolate from all these different topics
is there a single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yes. ["f."] what you're seeing is probably closer to an e + to the intelligence i've seen in my life.
so what you're seeing here is a consensus that intelligence is news, f, which is increasing the freedom of future behavior of the extreme limits.
it's working on increasing future behavior to the extreme limits, or keeping choices available, using some t, with the diversity of future time possible, x, until the future horizon, yo.
in short, intelligence should not be prepared.
the intelligence has to increase the freedom of future act to maximum boundaries and to keep choices open.
so, having this single equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
how predictive is it
do we predict human intelligence
do we build artificial intelligence
so i'm going to show you a video now that, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this single equation.
narrator: recent research in cosmology suggests that universities that produce more chaos, or an entropy, in their lifetime, have to tend to have more and more intelligent beings as ourselves.
but what if this temporary relationship between an entropy and intelligence refers to a deeper relationship
what if smart behavior isn't just about producing a long-term anthropomorphic product, but actually emerging directly from it
to find out, we developed a software engine called antarctica, designed to increase the long-term anthropomorphic production of any system that itself defines.
amazonica was able to succeed in many animal i.q. tests, in human games, and even money to earn a stock exchange, all without giving him instructions to do that.
these are some examples of antonica actually.
just like a human standing upright without falling, here's an entropy that's automatically balanced using a cart.
this is a partial behavior because we never covered antarctica.
he decided to balance the stick.
this ability to balance it will have applications in human robots and in human technologies.
just as animals are using things in their home as tools to get to the narrow spaces, here you see antonica, again with individual initiatives, was able to move large opportunities that represent an animal to another place to make small opportunities, represent a tool, reach a small space where there's a third loan and free the third chances of its original position.
this tool uses a capability that will have applications in industry and intelligent agriculture.
also, just like some other animals that can cooperate to pull the mountain down at the same time to free up food, here we see that entropy is able to do a typical version of that task.
it has the ability to cooperate interesting applications for economic planning and many other areas.
eb: entropy has broad applications in many principles.
for example, here we're seeing it plays successfully the tongue against itself, and it shows its ability to play.
here we're seeing antonica making new connections on a social network where we're constantly contacting friends and maintaining successfully to the good network.
this ability to synthesize networks also applications in health care, energy, intelligence.
here you see an antarctica running fleeting fleet of ships, discovering successfully and using the panama canal to extend his journey from the atlantic ocean to the pacific.
using the model itself, entropy has broad uses in problems of self-defense, logistics and transportation.
finally, we're here looking at antarctica discovering spontaneously and implementing a cheap price plan, with a high price on the simulated financial market of reality, and increasing the property that he runs successfully.
this ability to organize risks will have broad applications in economics and insurance.
alex whitopia: so what you've just seen is that a set of very clever cognitive behaviors, like using tools and walking, coordinating and social collaboration, are all following a single equation, which enhances a system to increase the future acting to the maximum boundaries.
now, there's a profound irony here.
according to the beginning, there was always the notion that if we developed a robotic intelligence, there would be a robotic revolution.
we will revolt the mechanisms against us.
one of the major consequences of this work is that maybe for all these decades, we had the reverse notion of the mechanical revolution.
it's not that the machines are getting clever at first, and then they're building great insanity and trying to control the world.
it's exactly the opposite, that the tendency to control all future time is a more fundamental principle of intelligence, that the aspects of general intelligence can actually track directly from control, rather than the opposite.
another important obstacle is the search for purpose.
i'm often asked, how can you explain the ability to goals in this frame
and the answer is, the ability to find targets that can be explained directly from this in the next area: as you go through a tunnel, a bottleneck in your future space, in order to achieve many other goals later, or as you invest in financial assurance, a little bit of your resilience in the short term in order to increase your fortune in the long term, that the
about a long-term motivation to increase your future behavior.
and finally, richard feynman, a well-known physicist, once wrote that if human civilization destroyed and was able to just give us one principle to help them reconstruct civilization, that principle had to be that all the material around us was made out of little elements spoke when they got away from each other but then clicked against each other.
my copy of that quote is to give our grandchildren to help them build artificial intelligence or to help them understand human intelligence, which is this: intelligence has to look at it as a physical process that tries to increase future actions to maximize limits and avoid constraints in the future.
thank you very much.