i'm going to talk to you about 30 years from the history of engineering.
this is a big deal for my brain in 18 minutes.
it's a complicated subject, so we're going straight into a complicated place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i was from new jersey, i was six years old, and i lived there with my father in a town called la la, and this was my bedroom.
at the corner of my room there was a bathroom that i shared with my sister.
and in my room, a morning, there was a scene in front of the living room.
and there was where everybody would come to see tv, so every time i'd go from my room to the bathroom, everybody would see me, every time i'd take my finger and take my feet off, everybody would see me.
i looked like this.
i felt weird, uncomfortable, so i hated feeling.
i hated that coat, that sidewalk, i hated that room, and that house.
and that's architecture.
it's over.
that feeling, those feelings that are being turned off, that's the power of architecture, because architecture isn't math for its own -- it's those round sensory angles that are being turned on in places that we're driving.
and it's not surprising that we feel this way, because according to the conservation agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
it means 90 percent of our time and we're surrounded by engineering.
this is an enormous thing.
which means that engineering determines who we are in ways we've not already known.
what makes us feel something, and we can predict what we want very easily.
that means when i show you a building like this, i know what you think: you think of it as power and stability and democracy.
and i know you're thinking about this because it's based on building a foundation of 2,500 cents ago by the greeks.
this is the trick.
this is the driving force that engineers use to create that emotional connection with the shapes we build buildings.
it's an unexpected emotional link, and we used it for a long time.
we used it 200 years ago to build banks.
we used it in the 19th century to build art museums.
and in the 20th century in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young, poor, poor soldiers, and they have the ocean to get risks.
this is very useful because building things is terrifying.
it's expensive, it takes a long time, it's very complicated.
and who builds these things -- developers and governments -- are naturally afraid of innovation, and they're better to use them just by those forms that they know you're going to be carrying around with them.
so we finally get buildings like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is the library of public space that was finished in 2004 in my hometown, and it had, you know, a dome and that circular thing, with columns, and you can guess what you're trying to say through this building: children, the values of the history.
but they don't have much to look at what libraries are doing today.
that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, it was done to build another library; it looked like this.
in seattle.
this library is about how we consume media in digital time.
they form a kind of public immune to the city, a place to accumulate their opinions and their opinions.
so how could it be that at the same year, in the same country, both sides, both sides of their own country, two different languages
and the answer is that engineering works on a linear principle.
on the first side we find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing into a new technology direction, studying new symbols, new solutions to how much we live today.
that's that we pay and push and push until we'll push them all together.
we wear black clothes, we wear them, we think we're going to be stuck inside us because ultimately we don't have another option.
we have to go to the other side and bring it back together by those symbols that we know are going to be.
we do this as happy, we feel like we're going to be at risk, and we get it back and we've taken it back and forth and we've done this over the last 300 years, and certainly over 30 years.
30 years ago, we were just out of the 1970s.
engineers were then busy testing something called violent architecture.
it has to do with concrete.
you can guess what that is.
small windows, by the scales.
this is very difficult.
we get closer to the 1980s, and we started to engage these symbols.
and she gave her a prize to the other side.
we take those shapes that we know you're making us make our own.
we add our company and we add our prize to new materials.
and i'll follow you.
we can't afford enough.
we take the english palace and we send them to do better than do, so it can be a glass from middle ages.
growing up, color became more and more dense.
the baby became the size of the columns.
it grew up as big as buildings.
that was crazy.
but it's the 1980s, so it's great.
we all meet in commercial furniture and go all around to live in the suburbs, and there, in the suburbs, we can create engineering pollutants.
and these are expands can be french or french or whatever.
maybe they would have <UNK> and <UNK> <UNK>.
this is an idea after urbanization.
this is the idea that we're going to orbit symbols.
they're easy, cheap, because instead of building places, we make memories of places.
because i know, and i know you all know, this isn't my fault.
it's ohio.
so they're worried, so we start to rethink the clock down to the other side.
at the end of the '80s and early' 90s, we started testing what we call the
we started giving historical symbols away, and we applied them to new design techniques that were supported by computer design, and we walked out of a bunch of new structures, from an awful lot of damage to shapes.
this is academic and hard stuff, and it's not quite fun; we're largely engaged.
usually the snail's salary is sometimes pushing itself to the other side.
then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is the head of the frank o'clock in the air with frank allen.
and this building has radically changed the relationship with the world of engineering.
paul allen said that his daughter was one of those big signs when the critics were constantly changing their minds about a building.
new york times considered this building as a symbol.
tourism doubled in its population by 2,500 percent after it ended up in this building.
suddenly, everybody wanted one of these buildings: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, ohio.
everybody wanted a similar building, and i became an art building around everywhere.
it's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how could these shapes be -- the most extraordinary and traditional forms -- how could they be around the world
this happened because media worked very quickly in their lab, because these shapes meant culture and culture.
and i'm going to try to make emotional reaction towards these shapes.
and he also did every mayor of town in the world.
every mayor knows that if they're going to take forms like this, they have culture and culture.
this phenomenon has happened with the beginning of the new millennium of some other stars.
i got with my two colleagues, and what happened with these few elite engineers with the beginning of the new millennium was to begin to influence the field of engineering as a whole, where digital media started to increase the speed we consume information.
think about how you're going to get engineering.
and for 1,000 years, you had to walk towards the nearby village to see a building.
the speed of transportation goes up: you can navigate a ship, you can take an airplane, you can be a pilot.
the speed of technology is increasing: you can see it in the newspaper, or on tv, at the end, we're all engineers and engineers, and the building's soul was replaced by the site.
engineering is everywhere now, which means that the speed of communication has finally followed by engineering.
because engineering is moving quite rapidly.
it doesn't require to think about designing a long time building.
it's built that takes a long time, three or four years ago, and at that time, an engineer and an engineer or eight or another hundred buildings before he knew whether he had made the building that he designed four years ago or not.
that's not a very subtle feedback loop.
so we end up with such a conclusion.
not only is the messy architecture movement two years ago; it's a movement that's 20 years old.
20 years ago we'd come out of buildings like this because we didn't know how much you were going to be.
this will not happen again, i think, because we live on a edge of one of the greatest engineering revolutions since the invention of concrete, metal or elevator, and what's the service revolution.
so my argument is that when media apply to their clock, it starts moving faster and faster, until it gets to the top of an almost hostile side, and this really shows the difference between creativity and symbols, between each other, between engineers, among you and public.
we can now create <UNK>, emotionally motivated symbols from something completely new.
let me show you how this works by my company's project recently.
we were brought together to create this building which was destroyed.
this is a city center called the lab in <UNK> island in new york state.
she's a member of the audience.
we gave them to sleep, to sleep, was different from all the buildings that the residents came back, we were scared and our client was scared, and we were scared, we were going to take a series of real, real concepts and put them on facebook and put them on facebook, and we gave people start doing what they were doing
but this meant that two years before building was done, the building was already part of society, and when the symmetries look exactly the same as the final product, there wouldn't be any difference.
this building was already part of society, and then in the first summer of then, when people started to share their own building and share images on social media, building no longer simply became a building but became a building, because this isn't just pictures of their own images; it's what you're calling you to this building.
and when you're using your own two tricks, it becomes part of your own behavior, and what you're doing is you're not able to click the way on our collective memory, and these emotional symbols are being shown to us by their own emotional biases.
it means we don't need to be surprised anymore to think about engineering.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media hasn't changed our relationship to each other, but also not the relationship between us and buildings.
think for a moment in library entrepreneurs there in their garage.
if that building was built today, the first thing they were going to do was go online and find new libraries.
so i'm going to consider some examples of tests, about creativity, and think deeper about what the library is.
those are the puppet.
those are the same settings that we can take with them as a master of their own, with their own colleagues, with their own colleagues, and say no one definition of what the library is today.
let's be part of this.
experiments were very common by giving them freedom for their money.
everything is different now.
engineers no longer use these mysterious words that are hard to use, and they never went back to that audience, that customer who won't accept anything that they've never seen before.
engineers listen to you. you're afraid to engineering.
that means that an hour clock that's turning forward and backwards from one way to another, from movement to movement, no meaning anymore.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions to problems our society faces.
this is the end of the history of engineering, which means tomorrow's buildings are going to look much different than buildings today.
which means that public spaces in the old city are unique and unique in how new city works.
which means that our tradition in brooklyn can be found there, it cannot be a historical tradition of a red tradition as we think it should be in a field.
that means robots build our buildings, because we're finally ready to engage the shapes they'll create.
it also means that building blocks with nature's own values are not the opposite.
this means that a car garage in miami beach in florida can be a place for sports and sports and you can also get there late at night.
that means three engineers dream of swimming in the east river in new york, and they've spent about half a million dollars of people who came around their case, they don't even have one customer anymore.
that means never building is smaller than creating it, and this little snail is so powerful and powerful as animals that designed for our own.
and that means that you shouldn't build what's beautiful to be loved, like this little, ugly building in spain, where engineers dig a hole, they fill it with a concrete hole around it, and when a cement dry, they let someone come up with the most beautiful hair until there's only this hidden, invisible room full of <UNK>
which became one of the most magical places for the spanish morning.
because it doesn't matter whether a cow is from our buildings or a robot built.
it doesn't matter how we build, what matters is what we build.
engineers already know how to build more friendly buildings with more intelligent and easier use buildings.
we were just going to let them all be surprised by them.
finally, we never had any other interview.
so i'm a engineer, i'm using engineer, i'm working with us to design better buildings, better cities, better cities, because standards are high.
it doesn't reflect our society buildings; it determines our bodies through the simplest spaces: local libraries, houses where we raise our children; the house that takes them from the bedroom to the bathroom.
thank you.
this is my brother's daughter and my brother.
i just turned year old and started walking.
she walked in that great way, as the whole child in her first year, where she was born.
it's absolutely wonderful.
and one of the most favorite things she's currently got is to stare herself in the mirror.
they certainly like their implications in the mirror.
she's laughing and laughing and again and accepting those same big reactors.
it's a beautiful thing.
and all her friends seemed to do this, and my mother told me i was also doing it, and this invited me to think about when i stopped doing it
when suddenly it becomes not as good as we should love our appearance
because obviously we don't like our appearance.
every month, 10,000 people google search "am i ugly"
these are three years old and living in do in do.
like any teenager you want to be loved and accepted.
it's sunday night.
she's ready for school next week.
she's a few crazy and crazy because even though her mother told her all the time she's beautiful every day at school, somebody tells her she's ugly.
because of the difference between what her mother says and what her mother says in school doesn't know.
so imagine a video of herself putting them on youtube and asking people to write a comment: "am i beautiful or ugly"
well, up until now, i got need need.
some of the comments are kind of awful, even though they didn't care about thinking about it.
this is an ordinary childhood girl who's given a healthy example to give you a pair of shoes like this at the most sensitive emotional times of her life.
thousands of people publish videos like this, most of them as teenage girls are connected like this.
but what did they make them do
well teenagers these days rarely be alone.
they're under pressure to be on the web all the time talking, send messages like this.
and i comment and publish -- this is never finished; we never had this connection with this continuous, immediate form and young woman.
as one mother told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
simply, there's no privacy.
and social pressures that go along are tough.
this environment of constant coming to our children is able to estimate value themselves by how many of their mistakes they get and kind of comments they're going to be.
there's no separation between life on the web and life out there.
it's hard to distinguish what's real and what's fake.
and also it's hard to distinguish between what's authentic and what's digital about it.
what's the important event versus regular daily events
where are they looking for inspiration
let's see how many pictures fill up girls' news sources these days.
our models are very highly complex, our platforms.
it became normal to draw features of our own, and we became aware of our own humanity.
it's about your hometown between your village.
your ability to encourage loss of novelty.
these trends are <UNK> physical view of women in public culture.
it's not hard to know what girls compare themselves.
but kids aren't infected either.
they see the broad and <UNK> of the sports and the singers' ears, but what's wrong with all this
of course we want to develop as individuals as individuals, but as a culture of culture as a culture, we are raising them.
they need to spend time and effort and value their social interests and their physical skills.
and school shows up to be worse.
six out of 10 girls choose not to do a job and make sure they're not so beautiful.
we're not talking about high activities; they're essential activities like individuals who are trained as individuals who are engaged in society by 100 percent, almost 1,000 out of every teenagers.
they'll be inspired by conversations in class not sharing because they don't want to.
she pointed out their appearance: one out of five lost school when she's not satisfied about her appearance, let's talk about tests when she thinks you don't look well.
especially if you think you're not an expert on your mind.
and they'll get down to some degree of your colleagues.
those who don't worry about this, which has been shown in finland and the united states and china, regardless of your weight.
more <UNK> we talk about it.
think about your shape -- not your real shape.
low trust and stress causes a classroom and destroy health when you lower adult confidence in practice, it's less and less clean with fruit and vegetables.
it's a healthy food food.
which leads to eating and south disorders, has a level of self estimate.
which makes it more depressed than others are depressed, and they're depressed, and all these things make them more likely to drink alcohol and drug abuse.
and sanitation and surgical surgeries are involved in sexual practices and damage themselves.
the pursuit of the perfect body is burned for hospitals.
our government costs billions of dollars every year and we don't stop women who are going to believe it.
regardless of whether they're already going to get better off work by cutting out work interview a day when you don't feel confident and confident.
let's think about what this effect is about our economy.
what do we expect if we beat those resources
but how do we do that
talk alone about problems.
it's not enough to solve them.
if we want to make a difference, we need to do something.
there are three ways to create change that first are awareness of the importance of trust in terms of trust, we need to teach teenagers.
how to overcome pressure show up perfectly and how they build their respect for their own self.
it's good for software to mean that right now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come to their outcome when i knew that a lot of these good programs were being done.
so we need to make sure that our children don't receive good data, which is why they don't just leave positive effects.
it always leaves an impact that studies show that the best awareness programs are about fundamental aspects.
first of all, family impact and friends and second influence effect, media impact and then dealing with the independent media groups how to compete and compare ourselves to others based on their own beliefs and talking about appearance and other respect for self and care about it.
these six key points for anyone who's serious at starting to be very confident and confident.
education and awareness is very important, but this problem requires all of us to be good role models for women and girls and girls.
and it's a challenge to reality where women are showing up in our communities.
we shouldn't judge the efficiency of our own hair through the perhaps breast or breast size or expect success to be surprised because they don't run their beautiful beauty.
we need to see people don't feel bad.
we need to care about how many images we share and the comments we've made in social networks.
we need to get people to work on the work they've made and the businesses they've done, not their forms.
let me ask you when was the last time you accepted a mirror
and ultimately we need to work together as communities and governments and entrepreneurs to change this culture and to encourage our children to appreciate their respect, their respect, their diversity and prosperity.
you have to engage people with community players and people who are engaged in the world.
and we bring them up and when we do that, then we can create change.
we want to create a world where our children feel free to be the best they can be in which my role is not to be seen as what they want to be.
think about what it's going to mean to anyone in your life.
who would have thought of you
is she your wife
and your sister
your daughter
his son and his son
your girlfriend or maybe she's a woman who's not away from you anymore.
what does it mean if it was replaced by that critic's voice, which is meant to make her more likely to make her more secure or more healthier or smaller
what does it mean for her if we beat this up and we're going to get sick because of it
today, our culture is an obsession with us.
but let's see our kids.
let's show them that their appearance is only one part of their identity and that we love their own actions and their actions.
let's combine the self in our schools approaches.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to others.
let's work together as a community of roots to governments to make happy children today, makers of change and change themselves tomorrow.
let's do that.
on five of our women, 1990, a man named mr. o was brought to a hotel in manhattan and killed the rabbi's brother, leader of the jewish defense department.
it wasn't basically been convicted of killing but when he was spending time on cheaper issues, he was planning with other men who were attacked on tens of sites in new york city, including from prison and jewish temple and united nations.
fortunately, these plans were touched by an fbi agent.
unfortunately they took off the year '50s for global trade they didn't cheat.
it was ultimately convicted of being done in the process.
mr. being my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, an egyptian engineer, an american mother who was loved, she was a primary class teacher, and she was together in her classroom and i lived a happy childhood childhood.
i was seven years old; our family's biological diversity began to change.
when my father came to the side of islam by a few people, including most muslims, they weren't to see him.
my own experience says that when people take their time to communicate with each other, it doesn't require effort to realize that in total, we can all forget about the same things in life.
but instead, in every religion, in every community, you will find a few people who are so passionate and excited that they feel they should use all the necessary means for others to live as they do.
a few months before he was arrested, he explained to me that in the weekends, some friends of mine were going to photograph me on long island in order to practice goals.
he told me i was going to get up next morning.
we got to a field of camera shot, which was, without our group flag, we were taken by the fbi.
when my turn came to shoot, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explained how i had to prepare the target for 30 yards away.
that day, another bullet was hit by a little orange lamp that was above purpose and what was surprising to everybody, especially to me, was that the whole goal had been divided by a monster.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and he said, "he's his father."
that's a lion from that lion.
apparently they were going to get me on this comment, but it took me a few years to understand exactly what they thought was funny.
they thought they saw me in me the same destruction that my father could do.
these guys were eventually won an agreement on a small truck that was filled with 1,500 pounds of moisture down the floor and <UNK> cars into the north trade center, and the temple was led to killing six more than 1,000 other people.
these guys were my role models.
these were from "my uncle" -- which means "uncle.
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, the instability of that during my childhood didn't really give me an opportunity to recognize many friends.
every time i start to feel comfortable with someone, we have to collect our own phones moving to the next city.
and being a new student in the classroom, i was often vulnerable.
i was hiding from my colleagues in the department to avoid my own identity, but it turned out that, being the great pacific boy in the classroom was a good ridiculous shape.
so most of the time, i was spending my day home and watching books and watching tv or playing video games.
for those reasons, i had no social skills, less estimate, and i was in a closed house; i couldn't get ready to face the real world.
i grew up with judge judge people based on two scales, like race or religion.
so what has opened my eyes
one of my first experiences that challenged my thinking was during the 2000 presidential election.
during my university university university program i was a member of the national council of youth in philadelphia.
my own group was focused on young violence, and being a victim that i've been most inspired by my life, which was a subject i was particularly excited about.
members of the group were different to life.
one day, at the end of the council, i discovered that one of the children who was a jewish was.
now, it took me several days to show these details on the surface, and i realized there was no natural lighting among us.
i had no jewish friend before, and frankly i felt proud that i could overcome a obstacle that i had been fascinated by my entire life to believe it was impossible to overcome.
a big turning point happened when i found a job done for the bush bush and the movie, which is like an art park.
there, i met people of various beliefs and cultures, and it turned out that this experience was essential to my personality development.
for most of my life, i've been told that orgasm is the event, and therefore, all gay people have negative impact.
and i happened to have the opportunity to work with gay actors in a show there, and then i soon discovered some of them were a bright, and the least people were facing others.
being a kid who was born with me as a child was creating a kind of empathy with other people's suffering, and seemed unusual to me to ever tell people anything else else that i loved to be happy with.
thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a kid with real life experience and deal with people.
i don't know what it means to be gay, but i know what it means to be willing to worry about something outside my god.
then the lab show itself the higgs valley.
john stewart <UNK>, every night i had to be honest with myself about his own values and his interests so that he could realize that he had nothing to do with your own religion or their sexual debt or the quality of his personality.
sometimes he was a father's character for me when i was yesterday needed to be born.
inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and being a jewish comedy has made so much sense to touch my vision of the world than my old father did, i'm no longer losing that for me.
one day, i was talking to my mother about my view of the world that started changing, and she told me something i would always hold in my heart forever.
i looked at my naked, <UNK> and inspired by trying to get enough of his life, and she said, "i'm tired of hate people."
at that moment, i realized how much negative energy i could hold those hatred inside you.
bruce abraham isn't my real name.
when my family decided to cut my parents apart from my parents and start new lives.
so why did i get out into public and put myself into a potential situation
well, it's simple.
i do this hopefully someone might have helped me use violence might listen to my story and realize there's a better way, that if you're vulnerable to violence, your lack of violence, my own lack of violence, it hasn't been broken.
instead, i chose to use my experience as a terror against terrorism, against prejudice.
i do this for victims of terrorism and abuse, pain and loss of loss that terrorism has been given to its life.
for the victims of terrorism, i'm going to talk loud against these works to teach my father what my father did.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not a matter of religion or race, and that the son is not supposed to follow his father's path.
i'm not my father.
thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you all.
now, you have a movie that's stuck inside your head.
it's a wonderful, diverse film.
he's going to be able to see 3d and high-tech technology of what you see as a cat right now, but this is just an beginning.
your film has a smell of your tongue and mirror.
it feels your body, your body, your body and your body.
it has feelings, from anger and happiness.
it has memories, like scenes of your childhood being run in front of you.
this has this continuous voice comment in the stream of your conscious mind.
and at the heart of this film you're testing all this directly.
this film is your consciousness stream, an experience of mind and world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental facts of human existence.
each one of us is conscious.
for each of us his internal film, you and you are too.
nothing we know a lot about in a direct way.
at least, i know about my consciousness in a direct way.
i can't be sure you're conscious.
consciousness also makes life worth living.
if we're not conscious, nothing will be in our lives is meaningful or valuable.
but at the same time, consciousness is from the most visible phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these internal movies
why aren't we just robots treating all these input, producing all these output, without testing this interior film at all
now nobody has answers to these questions.
i'm going to suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is inherently objective.
consciousness is inherently inherently inherently inherently inherently.
so there cannot be science for consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century this was the dominant view.
psychologists studied behavior in real time, studied brain neuroscientists with no matter what they were, and no one even made awareness.
until 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little scientific research on consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, this all started changing.
neuroscientists like francis williams and physicists like roger williams said it was time for science to study consciousness.
since then, there has been a real explosion, the prosperity of scientific research around consciousness.
and this was a fantastic work. it was their privilege.
but it had some major constraints yet.
the theme of consciousness was in recent years looking for informed relationships, the relevant relationships between certain areas of the brain and certain conditions of consciousness.
we saw some of this kind of work from joseph o'clock and the wonderful work i gave a few minutes ago.
now we understand much better, for example, the types of brain regions that go with conscious experience to see faces or pain or feeling happy.
but that remains the science of informed relations.
it's not the science of explanations.
we know that these regions of the brain are going to fit together certain kinds of conscious experiences, but we don't know why they're going to go with them.
i'd like to explain this by saying that this kind of work from neuroscience is answer some of the questions we want answers about consciousness, questions about what some brain regions are doing and what they're linked to.
but somehow, these are easy problems.
without the biologists' symptoms.
there's really no easy in the problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't take real mystery to the core of this: why should all physical processing in the brain be associated with consciousness
why does this interior self-assembly film exist
now, we don't have anything to explain that.
you might say let's just give neuroscience a few years.
and we've seen this as another emerging phenomenon like traffic traffic traffic traffic traffic, like time matter, like life also, and we'll create a solution for it.
classical evolution is all cases of emerging behavior, how traffic traffic is acting, how a hurricane works, how they've been saved by the organism and their culture, all questions about objective work.
you can apply this to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human function as a emerging brain: how we walk, how we talk, how we play chess, all of these questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, questions become questions about behavior among easy problems.
when it comes to the hard problem, the question becomes: why does all this behavior have an artificial experience
and here, the standard model of evolution, even the standard model of neuroscience, doesn't really have much to say.
now, i'm a physical person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, for a long time, and i'm going to look at my head in the wall and search for a theory of consciousness in a pure physical terms that may work.
but eventually i came to the conclusion that it didn't work only for systematic reasons.
and this is a long story, but the basic idea is that what you get from pure explanations and pure explanations for physical terms, and the dynamic is stories about how the system works; it's built; it's dynamic, it's dynamic, and the behavior that it makes, and it's great for easy solving how we act, and
this is something completely new, and this always has another question.
so i think we're kind of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're familiar with that, but it explains physics of chemistry, and chemistry science is defined by biology, and biology is defined by parts of psychology.
but consciousness doesn't seem to fit into this picture.
on the one hand, it's important to realize that we're conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to look at our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness now is kind of an extraordinary situation, which is sort of what we need to do with our vision of the world, but we don't see how it is yet.
in face of an unusual case like this, there might be some radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that looks at the beginning crazy before we can deal with scientific awareness.
now, there's a couple of reasons why these crazy ideas might be.
my friend dan allen, who's here today, has one.
his crazy idea is that there's no hard problem for consciousness.
the idea of the internal film all includes a kind of illusion or tension.
in fact, everything we need to do is explain objective functions, brain behavior, and then we've shown everything that needs to be explained.
well, i would say i wish it had more power.
this is the kind of radical ideas we need to predict if you want to have a very radical theory of consciousness based upon your brain.
at the same time, for me to be able to tell from other people, this view is very close to denial about a conscious device simply to be able to hide.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
at the rest of time, i want to explore two ideas and ideas that i think might have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is the foundation.
sometimes physicists take some aspects of the universe as fundamental: place and time.
their laws are essential to control, such as the laws of gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and laws are not essential at any fundamental level.
instead, it's taken as natural, and here we build the world.
now sometimes, the key list is embedded.
in the 19th century, there were evidence that the electromagnetic phenomenon cannot explain where the current principles are and time and newton's law was defined by fundamental laws and evidence of electric charge as a key component of these laws.
i think this is where we are with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in the current principles of space and time and time and so forth, from the door of reason, we need to expand the list.
the natural thing to do is to assume consciousness itself as something fundamental, fundamental building of nature.
and that doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens you the way to apply science to it.
what we need then is studying the fundamental laws that organize consciousness, laws that connect consciousness to other basic principles: space and time and physical processes.
physicists sometimes say we want basic laws so simple that they can write them on the front side and read them.
well i think something like that is where we are in terms of consciousness.
we want rules that are so simple that we can write them on the front side and we'll be able to write them.
we don't know what those laws are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness may be worldwide.
every system can have some degree of consciousness.
this view is sometimes called the general self "the economist": "the so-called public and" the e "points for the mind, every conscious system, not only humans and dogs and flies, but even the microbes of rob louis a.m., elementary particles.
even a tasmanian devil has a certain degree of consciousness.
it's not that smart potatoes or they think.
and it's not that the tasmanian devil is worried because he thinks, "unfortunately i always move around and move from the speed of light.
i could never slow down until the flowers slow down. "
no, not like that.
but the idea is that the arteries may have some elements of raw sense, some primitive primates of consciousness.
this might sound a little bit like yours.
i mean, why would anyone think of such a crazy thing
some motivation comes from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is essential, like the place and the time of the square, it's natural to assume that it might also be global, like they are.
it's worth telling us that although the idea looks invisible to us, it's less intuitive for people than different cultures, where the human brain is more <UNK> by nature.
the deeper drive comes from the idea that perhaps the most simple and powerful way of finding basic laws that connect consciousness to physical bias is to link awareness to information.
wherever there is information processing, there is consciousness.
complex information processing, as in humans, means a complex awareness.
and processing simple information means simple sense.
and what's really interesting is that in my last few minutes, the neuroscience scientist has taken this kind of theory and developed it precisely with mathematical theory.
it has a mathematical measure of information called j, which measures integrated information within the system.
it's supposed to be called "lean into consciousness."
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of integrated information, high degree of computational information, and a huge amount of consciousness.
in the mouse, there's an average degree of information processing, still important, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when we get into worms, worms, particles, they create the amount of ever.
it also gives you a lot of information involved, but it's still above zero.
in theory of despair, there will be zero degrees of consciousness.
in fact, he suggests an essential principle of consciousness: the higher the degree of mind, the more awareness.
now, i don't know if this theory is true, but it's actually -- i think the leading theory now in consciousness, and it's been used to combine a whole bunch of scientific data, and it has a beautiful property which is actually quite simple that you can write on the front side and the front part.
the other motivation for the second is to go public psychology may help us combine awareness in the physical world.
and what physicists and philosophers have noticed is that physics is weird.
it describes reality structure using a bunch of equations, but it doesn't tell us about reality that's behind them.
as steven hawking says, what puts the fire in equations
well, according to general psychology, you can leave the equations of physics as well, but you can make them describe the flow of consciousness.
this is really what physics does ultimately, describes the flow of consciousness.
from this perspective, consciousness is what puts fire in equations.
according to this view, consciousness doesn't fall out of the physical world as a kind of a combination.
it's right at the heart of the physical world.
this perspective, i think, has the power to change our relationship to nature, and may have some very dangerous social and ethical consequences.
some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i should not eat anything that has consciousness, so i should be a priest.
now, if you're a general psychologist and you take this opinion, you're going to be hungry.
so i think when you think about it, it will lead to changing your views, whereas what matters for moral purposes, not really consciousness is a big deal, but awareness level of its own consciousness.
it's also natural to ask for awareness in other systems, like computers.
what about the artificial intelligence system in "j,"
is it conscious
well, if you take the general psychology view, surely they have complex information processing and complex information coordination, so the answer is yes, they are conscious.
if this is true, it's very serious ethical issues about the ethic of developing intelligent computer systems and a closed tax.
finally, you might ask about the consciousness of all groups, this planet.
do you have canada's own cognitive recognition
or at a more local level, is an integrated group like the audience at ted, do we now have a special cognitive awareness of ted, an inner film for this collective ted group that's different from the internal movies for each part of our group
i don't know the answer to this question, but i think at least a question worth taking.
well, so a general psychology perspective is a radical vision, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident about the first crazy idea, which is a fundamental awareness, than my confidence in the second idea, which i think you would think of as an essential.
i mean, perspective is a number of questions that are made up of challenges, like how those little bits of consciousness are added into the kind of complex consciousness that we know and learn.
if we can answer those questions, we will keep them on the right path towards a serious theory of consciousness.
and if we can't, this is probably the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we cannot expect to solve it overnight.
but i think we'll find a solution for it eventually.
understanding consciousness is the real key, i think, to understand the universe and understand ourselves, both.
we might need just the right crazy idea.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village at all.
growing up was a normal nature.
i went to school with my friends and sisters with my little sisters.
all of this was normal.
when i was 15, someone in our local community called my family and wanted my family to get a chance to get a society.
and my dad said, "that's really nice, but there's one clear problem.
she did nothing. "and they were right at that, you know.
i went to school, got good degrees, i had small work after school in my mother's hair pool, and i spent a lot of time watching "killer of blood" and "blood justice."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but all of that was true.
i never did anything outside of any known way.
i couldn't do anything that would be considered as though i'd cut the disability out of the equation.
years later, i was in the second teaching course at high school, and i was 20 minutes before the legal study of 11 years later, he raised his hand boy and said, "miss, when are you going to give your talk"
and i said, "what word"
you know, i was explaining to them about the law of two hundred minutes.
he added, "you know, your speech is fake.
you know, when people come to school, they usually say things to them.
"she's usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: this boy was the only experience with his own needs as an inspiration.
but we're not, for this boy, and not that boy, i mean, that's true for many of us.
for many of us, the talented people are not our doctors or our nurses or our doctors.
we're not real people. we're not real people.
and actually, i'm sitting on this stage looking like i'm in this wheelchair and you're probably expecting me to be here. isn't that right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i fear my parents will be deeply moved by me.
i'm not here to be here.
i'm here to tell you that we've been lying around disability.
yes, the lie that says that disability is something bad.
it's bad, and having lived with disability is that it makes you extraordinary.
it's not the bad thing; it doesn't make you special.
in recent years, we've been able to publish this lie further through social media.
you may have seen pictures like this: "the only disability in life is bad behavior."
or this: "unacceptable."
or this: "before you stop, try!"
these are just a bunch of examples, but there are more examples.
you know, you may have seen the little girl without holding a picture, holding his pen and his pen.
or you may have seen a child running on a fiber cable for carbon.
and these pictures, there are many of them all: what we call "inspiration."
and i use the term "anyway," because they suck up one group of people for other groups.
so in this case, we are the compassionate metaphor for the informal.
the purpose of these images is to keep them up, to look at them and think, "well, whatever my life is bad, you can miss them worse.
i could have been that guy. "
but what if i was that guy
i didn't count how many times i was approaching strangers telling me they thought i was a courage or an inspiring one -- and this was before my work had kind of come out.
they were getting together in the morning and remember my name.
and this is a tool that's taken us into this tool of images, those images that hold the needs of private needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they're there to look at them and then think everything isn't your fault for you. make all your mistakes in perspective.
and life as someone who's interested is really very difficult.
we're going beyond some odds.
but those things that are moving beyond are not those that we're moving around.
it's not things about our own experiences.
i use the term "people who are" <UNK> "because i am shared with what's called the disability social model, which tells us we are more vulnerable to our bodies than we live in or our own.
so i lived in this body for a long time.
and i love it very much.
things i need to do, and i've learned to use it as well as you do, and that's what kids do in those pictures too.
they don't do anything extraordinary about nature.
they use their bodies by higher performance.
so is it fair to get through and to see how we're going to do this, to spread those images
when people say "you are inspiring," they're going to get me <UNK>.
and i know why that happens.
it's because of the lie, which they sold us the lie that disability makes you an extraordinary and special person.
they don't actually do that.
and i know what you're thinking.
you know, i'm here to remind you of inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god, don't you sometimes hurt some things"
and the thing is, yeah.
you know people who are other people who are being trained all the time.
but you don't know i'm much more likely than them.
i'm learning it's a genius idea to use that trap things that have fallen off you. i'm learning that cool trick how to charge your phone battery through your wheelchair battery.
genius!
we learn from each other as our own, our own forces and our own ancestors, not against our bodies and our bodies but against our world of our own suffering and our own suffering.
i think that lie is a lie to us about disability is a huge corruption.
it makes life difficult for us.
and that quote is "the only disability in life is bad behavior," because that quote is nonsense because it's not real, because of the social model of disability.
there's no enough blood that went into the electric goat.
never! i'll be on tv that will never make the text out for innocent people.
there's not enough to stand in the middle of a library and radiation, a positive card than all those books are sent into a language of need.
it will never happen.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception but the natural thing.
i want to live in a world where a 15 girl sitting in her room sees "killer of blood justice" not mentioned but made anything because she sees her as her own.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations for the people with disability where we only take away from bed and remember our own two daughters in the morning.
i want to live in a world where we value the true achievement of the people with disability, i want to live in a world where a child at 11 high school doesn't ever be surprised because your chair uses a chair.
disability doesn't make you feel good; thank you. it's about what you thought you knew it made you feel.
what does it do with flat reality and professional football
what's the speed of a flying bird
unfortunately, i won't answer one question today unless they start to ask one of these questions so as well as try to get your answers.
when most people think about their own space reality, they think about "la o'clock's film" and tom sits and they hold their hands in air, but its own space is not scientific fiction.
its own reality is something that will happen in our lives, and will happen because we have tools to achieve it, and people have to realize that, because its flat reality will change our lives exactly as much as everyone else is online and mobile.
so how do we get to a flat reality
step one is the step i'm wearing right now, google glasses.
i'm sure google glasses are familiar with many of you.
what you may not think is google glasses are a device that allows you to see what i see.
i'm going to give you an experiment that's being an expert in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try to describe it to you.
i have to use words.
i have to make a lot of good for you guys doing so.
with google glasses, we can put this under a helmet, and we can feel something like the enemy in the field at 100 miles an hour, the blood is still <UNK> in your ears.
you can feel what looks like a 250 man who runs around you trying to cut your head out all your way.
i was at the end of this audience and not feeling good.
now, i have some footage to show you what it looks like to wear google glasses under a helmet to give you this feeling.
unfortunately, it's not a footage from my local football turn because my football turn thinks emerging technology is what happens when it's floating around, but we -- we do what we can.
so let's watch some videos.
chris anderson: come on.
ah, exposure is terrible.
hey let's get a little closer.
ready
come on!
chris anderson: so as you can see, it feels as simple as having a ball field of time from a linear perspective.
now, you may have noticed that there are some people who are going to help us: the rest of the team.
we have a video about that gift from the university of washington.
main middle player: come on, mice are 54! mice are 54!
eight blue! eight blue! come on!
ah!
chris anderson: again this makes you slightly closer to what it looks like to be in the stadium, but this isn't even close to being in my local football role.
they want to experience that.
they want to be in the stadium.
they want to be my favorite player, and they've already talked to me through youtube, through twitter, and they're like, "can you apply this to the main middle player
so, are you going to play behind
we want that experience. "
well, once we get that experience with google's google, how can we get more excited
how do we take the next step
well, i'm going to take that step by something called the titanic, and i'm sure many of you will be surprised.
by the end of the titanic, it's taken away from the most abstract virtual reality devices ever invented, and that's not the most extraordinary thing.
i'm going to show you that this isn't a fake fake memory in this video.
man: ah! ah!
no! no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh my god! i'll be surprised!
chris anderson: so this is a man's experience on death train who's afraid of his life.
so you think what would it be like to try this out when we showed it a video clip to fly across the line of guns and guns that were powerful before they ran the ground
so you think how would that experience be when he's the day's day's day's day off the stadium, or his brother sending out the ball in his tracks
so you think how would you experience this as a sign when it <UNK> down the side of a mountain at over 70 miles an hour to <UNK> an elite hills
i think the sales of her old food may rise.
but this isn't yet <UNK> reality.
this is just virtual reality.
how do we shift to flat reality
we're going to transform into the physical reality when our future is looking at how much this information is going to flow from people's desire to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our teams better
how do we use this to win games "
because the difference is always using technology to win games.
they like to win; that's how money works.
so an brief historical glimpse of technology in my local football role.
in ohio, he'd put a seat on his main medium so he could call games faster.
they won their report paul this year.
other teams are like crazy.
watch the game more people because it's gotten more attractive.
it was faster.
in 1994, my local football class put in two players' front middle players and then defense later.
the games saw more people because they were faster.
they were even more excited.
in your lab, imagine you're a player coming back into the crowd and your game is shown right in front of your face with your transparent plastic bottles that we already have.
no more anxiety about forget games.
no more anxiety about carrying a game revolution and making it happen.
just get out my interaction.
and he wants my age to be so excited because the tasks that are missing cause the game loss of the game to be lost as a game loss.
your games will fall apart as you fall from the coach act.
they don't want to.
but its flat reality isn't just a game compass.
its flat reality is also a way to get all of that data and use it in real time to improve how you play your game.
how could that be
well, it's very simple: camera in every corner of the stadium is pointing down giving you a vision from above to everybody down there.
you also have information from the helmet sensors that are being done right now.
they take all that information, and they make it flow and they flow around.
good difference makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and the mechanism produces an extra data load.
that determines good difference.
it's bad.
i'm about data not for the <UNK> anymore.
they might also be the only mola's, who knows
what would that look like in the stadium
well imagine you're the main middle player.
i took my leg and then i fell back.
the stadium is exploring its free control, suddenly, a bright flash on the left side of your condoms that you learn to find out your invisible hand runs through your belly.
in normal condition, you won't see it but its own natural reality system teaches us to do it.
you step towards the target.
and then another little flash goes into free future.
you pass a ball, but you're going to go through it in the back of the fold.
the ball is not about its course.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on its own way, she sees a piece of grass that light up and knows that he should be doing it.
he goes, he goes, he goes, he goes, he goes.
the crowd is moving excited, and i'm going to share it with him every step in the road, watching from every perspective.
now this is something that will create huge profits in the game.
it will make such a huge amount of people watching, because people want this experiment.
they want to be on the stadium.
they want to be their favorite song.
its own space reality will be part of sports, because it's very profitable but not only.
but the question i'm going to ask you is is this anything we can use our own space reality
will we use them only as a tool, as a tool, as a tool
because i think we can use our own own physical reality to something more.
i'm sure we could use the flat reality as a path to promote sensory communication through human beings themselves, through literally by someone else's bodies, what it looks like to take someone else's place.
we know what this technology is worth with mathematical mechanics.
it's worth the revenue of billions of dollars per year.
but what value this technology is in a classroom trying to show what damage its actions are from the perspective of the victim
what is the value of this technology to be seen by the russian or the russian trying to show the world how does it live under the process
what is the value of this technology to our parents or neil lee o <UNK> and they're trying to inspire our children to think about space and science rather than annual reports and mount louis
ladies and gentlemen, the earth's orbit is coming.
the questions we ask, the questions we do, the challenges we face, as usual, come back to us.
thank you.
recently, she's taken over the california streets police service 23 years later.
most of that time i spent in south county's county, which includes the golden gate bridge.
the bridge is a creative building, known at the level of the world as the aesthetic aesthetic texture of san francisco, and into the pacific, inspired by inspiration.
unfortunately, he's also a factor of the creation of his own population, where he's one of the most extreme areas of the world trying to get him back.
the golden gate opened in've opened up in've been.
joseph allen, president of engineers, responsible for building a bridge called "the bridge is <UNK>.
suicide from the bridge is not practical and not possible. "
but while i open more than 52 people <UNK> on that bridge.
some believe that traveling between my son's truck will lead to them further, this bridge holds an idea like falling off its mouth and its soul, and water down below and <UNK> your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when the bridge uses suicide structure.
four or five seconds later, the body hits a water at a speed of about 75 miles an hour.
that shock of bone disorder, which is then passed through the biological organs.
many die from the impact of collision.
those who don't die are generally understood by a total of no power nor power, then we're gone.
i don't think those who choose this way of suicide understand how awful death is that way.
this is our gift.
except for the underground ground, there are 32 inches of wire and bridge.
here many of these people stand before they kill themselves.
from my experience i can say that someone if he gets to that hole in the middle of his life, and in the worst part of his life, it's very difficult to remember him.
i took this year picture of a date while this young woman was talking to the officer and she looked back at her life.
and i can tell you happy that we managed successfully that day to get rid of the fence.
when i started working on the bridge, we weren't formal training.
we had to meet these calls.
it wasn't just bad for those who tried to commit suicide; it was also a failure.
it's been a long way since then.
now, the former psychologists and psychologists train new officers.
this is neil lee.
i met neil on june 22 last year when she received a call as the case of the police trying to get raped sitting in the middle of the bridge.
i responded to her, and when she arrived, i watched neil speak to the bridge officer.
neil was 32 years old and he came off from new jersey.
in fact, he came here twice before this time from new jersey to try to suicide from over this bridge.
after about an hour talking to neil, he asked if we knew the story of the
if you remember in greek myth, you would call him created youre created, send him to earth with a box, and then tell her, "never open your box."
but one day, curiosity enabled youre youre, and he invited it to open up the box.
i was buried by the slums, all sorts of evil against humans.
the only good in that box was hope.
then, neil lee said, "what happens if you open up the box and there was no hope"
he stopped for a moment, and he paid his left hand, and then he went away.
this young man, smart from new jersey, is just older than suicide.
he spoke with his parents that night, and i think while i was talking to them, i didn't seem like i had worked all i could, because the next day, my family was calling me.
<UNK> asked him to do that.
the immediate damage of the damage makes many people more likely.
i'm going to ask you this question: what would you do if someone who was a child who was a child who was a child who was a child who was trying to commit suicide
what would you say
how would you know what you're going to say
by my experience, it's not just talking; it's your click.
listen to understanding them.
don't hurt you. don't be ashamed; don't tell that person you feel it because you probably don't feel it.
just to get there, it could be the turning point they need.
if someone feels like depression, i don't want you to be facing it and ask it about it.
one way to ask this question is: "other people in similar circumstances think about ending their lives; have you ever come up with such ideas"
facing someone directly saved his life and becomes a turning point for him.
some other signals you can see: despair, belief that life is terrible will never get better; disability, believing there is nothing you can do about it; by accelerating social life; and loss of desire in life.
i had this talk a few days ago, after i got an email from a lady who wanted to read her message to you.
her son lost her son at 19 this year, and she gave me this mail just a few days ago, and after she left me i read you.
"hi, kevin. i expect you're at ted right now.
there must be some wonderful experience.
i think i'm supposed to walk on the bridge at the end of the week.
so i wanted to leave you with a note.
i'd like to tell people my word to sing and tell her their parents who told their parents, etc.
i'm still missing some things, but i'm already beginning to realize those moments that mike won't come home.
mike was driving his car from his garage towards san francisco watching his san francisco team game with his father on january 19.
but he never went on forever.
i called his father a man who lost his own night.
and the next morning, my daughter came home and showed me that mike's car was standing near the bridge.
he noticed his own watch jumping from the bridge at 1: 58 nights earlier today.
thank you very much for supporting those who were just for a long time very weak and most vulnerable.
who of us didn't feel vulnerable without suffering from mental illness
it's very difficult to stop.
my question is to you in your office.
the bridge of the golden gate was supposed to be a beautiful cross, not a grave.
my wishes is good for you this week, and i'll give you a promise. "
i can't imagine her being able to walk over the bridge and run on the road she took her son that day, and she only struggled to continue life.
i want to introduce you to a man who describes hope and courage.
on march 11, 2005, he called the radio call, as likely as trying to suicide on the front tracks near the north tower.
i went into my bike down the subway and noticed that guy, kevin o <UNK>, standing on the subway road.
when he saw me, he immediately threw me off the pedestrian barrier, and he stood on that little tube that would roll onto the tower.
and for the next hour and a half, listen to kevin talking about his own two daughters.
kevin decided that day he would return that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, he woke up.
"this is new beginning; this is new life."
but i asked him, "what was it that made you come back and give life and hope for another chance"
you know what he said to me
he said, "you listen to me.
they're leaving me talking, and they're just listening to me. "
shortly after that incident, i received a message from kevin, and here's the message with me now, and i'd like to read it to you.
"dear mr. o <UNK>, nothing will happen at 11 o'clock in march, but you are one reason kevin's survival is here.
and i was totally surprised that kevin was my brother's daughter.
i was diagnosed with mental illness now regularly.
kevin had been invited when he was six months old, and i didn't know at all as the funding for his smell, but thank god, we know that now.
kevin lee and his colleagues say.
we truly miss god to being you.
and the city will come and share it for you, and i will save you. "
and at the bottom of the message i wrote, "table, when i visited san francisco hospital that night, they had written your name on you were the patient.
i swear i really wanted to fix that mistake. "
today, kevin became an emotional and professional organ in society.
he's talking frankly about what happened today and his hope is that his story is inspired by others.
suicide is not something i experienced during my work.
it's personal.
my grandfather was older at suicide itself.
even though that act ended its own conclusion, but it gave us an opportunity to recognize.
this is what suicide does.
most of their deaths, or those who think of suicide, don't kill someone else.
they just want to end their own pain.
usually, it's done three ways: sleep, drugs or alcohol or death.
during my work, i responded and involved in hundreds of calls of suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i was directly responsible for have only lost two conditions, but many cases are.
and one of them was neil.
and my daughter was a man who i spoke to about an hour with.
and as i talk with him, i shake my hand three times.
in that last, he looked at me and said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
and then he puts it on.
terrifying, absolutely awful.
i want to tell you too, that the vast majority of people we meet on that bridge don't provide suicide.
in addition, those few who <UNK> on the bridge and lived and could talk about their experience, one or two percent, most said that, in the moment that they had been given that barrier they knew they had committed mistakes and wanted to live again.
what i'm saying to people is, the bridge doesn't just reach san francisco but it's getting people together too.
that connection or bridge that we're going to fight, is something that each of us should fight for.
suicide can be preventable.
there's help; there's hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different from who you are, but, in your soul, you know who you are, and that question is burning down in you: how does it become
maybe i'm going to be a fan of that. but i'm not an expert, i'm not an absolute fan.
so when i became a fashion model, i felt i finally felt like i had the dream i had ever dreamed of since i was a child.
my external personality is match my inner truth with my self.
for many complicated reasons, i'll come to her later, when i look at this picture, then i felt like i made that. i got that. you got me.
but over october, i realized i was still just at first.
and in fact, we've been put inside boxes by their own families, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even our bodies themselves.
some people have the courage to break that, not accept the limits that are due to their skin color or because of their differences around them.
these people are the source of constant threat to the status quo, now that's been accepted.
in my case, over the last nine years, some of my neighbors, some of my friends and colleagues and even my colleagues, haven't been talking about my history.
i think, <UNK> this is called the "lean."
and this is secret.
i was recorded at birth as a boy based on the outside form of his baby.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, and as a kid around the house, i always put a shirt on my head.
my mother was like, "how can you wear that shirt on your head all the time"
i was saying, "mama, this is my hair; i'm a girl."
i knew how to define self-assembly.
sex, it was still an absolute fact: completely useless, but we now know it's more flexible, more flexible.
because of my success, i didn't have the courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world deals with us. which we hope is freely living.
every day, i'm so grateful that i'm a woman.
i have a mother and a father and a family who has agreed to be true as i would.
many aren't lucky.
there's usually an old habit in asian culture celebrating a mystery about sex.
there's a buddhist buddhist gods.
there's the gods of the temple, the migration.
and that's when i was eight, i was at a celebration in the philippines with those secrets.
i was at the front of the theater, and i remember, this beautiful lady came out in front of me specifically, and i remember that moment something inside said, "this is what i want to take you back.
so when i was 15, i still wore a boy dress, i met a lady named "t."
she was the director of an agency of an sexually motivated show.
that night she asked me, "how did you not take me into beautiful games"
i thought if i wanted to do it by making tape and clothes, and that night, i won in swimming clothes and i'd run the second center in the competition between 40 and 40 <UNK>.
that moment changed my life.
suddenly, i was introduced to the beauty competition of the world.
and it's not supposed to be the first career queen of beauty who is deaf, but i will accept opportunity.
so 15 years ago i shared about 17 years of most of those dishes until i shared a competition that was set up in the diameter truck, literally, or again, a competition that was set next to a rice transplant, and when it rain -- and in the philippines it's a lot of rain -- the so-called equivalent of taking the competition into
i've been dealing with good strangers, especially when we travel to remote parts in the philippines.
but most importantly, i met some of my best friends from that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said he was approved to have access to america, which means that i could move to america.
i did accept that.
i told my mother, "mama, i'm so cool.
here with my friends, i love traveling; i'll call them the queen of beauty. "
but two weeks later, she called up and she says, "do you know that in america you can change your name and your name"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also said to me to put a double e on my name.
she was also with me when she had done surgery in thailand in 19.
that's interesting, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand their performance is better and more likely to be at high levels of safety in those surgeries.
then in the united states, you have to get surgery before you change the name and sex that's recorded.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember having a driver's license in california who was my name and i called my sex prize as female.
that was a moment of strength.
for some people, personal identity is leadership or even having alcohol, for me, it was a love for life, to feel free.
suddenly, my feeling of fear began to be scared.
i felt i could achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a model.
many aren't happy enough.
i think it's because of this woman named after her brother.
she's from new york, and she's a young lady who was living on her condition as a nightmare, but hatred surrounded her life.
and for most of my community, this is our reality of life.
our suicide rate is higher than our average year.
in november 20, we organize a global delay against our left day.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who are standing and standing against injustice.
this is dr. johnson and johnson.
today, this particular moment, this is my moment of real time.
i could no longer live my truth for myself and my truth.
i'd like to give better to help others live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, naked, even someday, there won't be 20 years' worth of november.
my inner truth made me accept my self.
can you
thank you very much.
thank you very much. thank you. think about your two: two <UNK>, a quick question for you.
i wonder what you would say, especially for parents, but more <UNK>, friends, family, for anyone who finds themselves in face with a child or someone who is facing or who is being skeptical about sex that's been defined by him, what can you say to the family of that person to help them become better, and kind of a
<UNK>: of course, okay. first of all, i'm very lucky.
my support system, especially with my mother's support, and my family, was very powerful.
i remember every moment i wanted to train a young woman with young women, count them, or sometimes when they call me and they say they don't let it. i was raising the phone called my mother, "mama, can you talk to that woman"
sometimes it works useful, sometimes it doesn't work. but that's just to identify sex in your neighborhood, right
i mean, we're all born when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start this talk is sometimes our particular sex isn't <UNK> so there must be space for people to be aware of, and that conversation that they're supposed to be with parents, colleagues.
our own reproductive movement, still at first, compared to how gay movement began.
it's still much more than it should be done.
there should be understanding.
there can be a space to ask questions, and i hope you all will be my intentions.
tk: thank you very much. that was great. <UNK>: thank you.
in many societies, including women, they're often known as parents, but i'm one of those few who know their children, and i'm proud of this thing.
she started her big campaign for education and defense of her rights, in 2007, and when she was asked for her efforts in 2011, the national peace prize became very famous for her country.
before all, she was my daughter, but now, i am her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at human history, women's story is an unfair story, inequality, violence and abuse.
you see, in societies like men, from the beginning, when they're born, their birth is not celebrating.
she is welcome, whether her mother or her father.
neighbors come to mother's neighbors; they don't like their own parents.
mother is very uncomfortable with my promise of stress.
when she generates the first girl, her first daughter, mother is very sad.
when she is born her second daughter, her mother's daughter, and when she is expected to be born a male son, but she is born third girl, her mother feels guilty as though she is a daughter.
not only does mother suffer, but also girl, child child, when she grows, she suffer too.
at five years old, when you have to be at school, the girl's home is still at school while the males are going to school.
until 12 years old, in some way, live a good life.
they can have fun.
you can play with her friends on the streets, and move across the streets like a dome.
but when she becomes a teenager, when she comes into her 13 year-old brother, she'll be able to leave the house without facilities.
she's going to be between four walls of her house.
it's not free person anymore.
she becomes what's called the privilege of father, her parents, her family, and if you count the limits of that honor, she's killed.
interestingly enough, the honor code for its meal doesn't affect only the life of a girl, but it also affects male lives in her family.
i know a family of seven sisters and one brother, and that one brother, who fled to the gulf countries, to make life for his seven brothers and sisters and sisters, because he thinks he will be happy if she learned her seven skill brothers and sisters from home to be committed to being educated and educated.
this brother, have been enjoying his life and suddenly enjoying his sisters for what's called privilege.
there's another habit in countries called "lean in."
"good girl" should be very quiet and very, very quiet.
this is the standard.
good girl should be very quiet.
they should be silent and they should be inspired by father's decisions, their father's greatest dreams, including one, even if they don't.
if she's married to a man who doesn't like her or who's old, she has to accept that, because she doesn't want to look at her as "not a" nor a man. "
if you marry a very young age, you have to accept it.
otherwise i would never be dead.
and what happens eventually
in words like two girls, they're like a pair of shoes, put them in bed and then they give me more kids and girls.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, she will know the same lesson as her father, and the same lesson of honor and honor.
and this ring goes on and on it goes on.
ladies and gentlemen, millions of women can be asked if we think differently, if women and men think differently, then women in communities like women, in developing countries, if they can bring some family habits and community habits, if they can eliminate race laws in systems in their countries, which are associated with basic human rights for women.
brothers and sisters, when i was born to my sisters, and for the first time, believe me, i don't like new babies, i'll be honest with you, but when i looked in her eyes believe me, i got a big honor.
before i was born long before, i thought to her parents, and i was fascinated by the heroes of afghanistan.
her name was an act of mine, named my daughter after him.
a few days after i was born to my daughter, my daughter came to my cousin and was an accident -- he came home to bring back family tree, family tree, looked at the tree, and saw that she was going through the history of 300 years of our ancestors.
but they were all men, so i picked up my pen, i added my pen and i wrote "picked up."
when i grew up, she became four and a half years old, and she was born at my school.
now you might ask me why would i mention i'm going to be in school
i should mention this thing.
this may be a concept of being brought up in canada, and in america in many developed countries but in poor countries, in communities of rural communities, this thing is an important event for a girl's life.
go to school means knowing its identity and its name.
the acceptance of school means that she has entered the dream world and a world of mine where she can discover her potential as her future life.
i have five sisters, so none of them could get to school, but you're going to be surprised by you. it's two weeks ago, when i was going to fill up my canadian bank address, when i was filled with the family's role of demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason why i've never seen anything in my life is because i've written nothing in a document.
this was why he invited me to appreciate my daughter.
something my father couldn't give him to his daughters', i thought he should change it.
i've always been able to predict the intelligence that my daughter has given.
i would have liked to sit with me when my friends came.
i wanted you to go with me with me many meetings.
all these good values, which are conditions to be forced to be.
she didn't just have it. she just missed her.
i grew up all these great values for my school students and boys alike.
education used as a way to restore it.
i knew my parents, i knew my girls' parents, not learning their own lesson.
my students don't learn a lesson called fake privilege.
my dear brothers and sisters, we were trying to make extra rights for women and we were fighting to get more, more space for women in society.
but we have a new phenomenon.
it was a deadly killer of human rights specifically for women's rights.
it was called "the" la. "
which means full and full of women's participation in all political and social activities.
hundreds of schools are being spent.
girls were block away from going to school.
women forced me to wear clothes and didn't let them go into markets.
the musicians, the musicians, the girls were killed.
millions were suffering, but few people were talking about it, and it was the most amazing thing to be surrounded by people like whom kill their rights, and you're talking about rights.
it was really the most exciting thing.
at 10 years old, i stood up to my parents, i stood up for education.
i wrote a note for a blog called "i've been raped by herself for new york times movies; i talked from every platform i could talk to."
and the voice was more powerful.
it spread out a voice from all over the world.
and this was why the taliban had made their own little movement, in october of 2012, and they had to shoot at their head at a close distance.
this day was like the day of the judgment for my family and me.
the world turned into a large black hole.
when my daughter was living and dying, i thought to my wife, "did you ever have to believe what my daughter had gone to my daughter"
but she suddenly said, "please don't mind yourself.
i stood on the right side.
you've put your life at stake for right, for peace, for education, your daughter has been inspired by you and your daughter is here.
you both were on the right path and god would be protected. "
these few words meant so much to me, and i didn't ask this question again.
when she was a hospital officer, she was very upset and she had severe foie gras because he had been called the "lean," i saw a field of bees and then based on my wife's face.
but my daughter didn't really make me believe me one day.
she was saying to us, "i'm fine with my two daughters and my friends and my sisters.
i'll be okay, please don't worry. "
she was a fan of her family, and she gave her a mistake.
my dear brothers and sisters, they taught us the resilience on their nearest side, i'm glad i shared them alone that although it's a symbol of child rights and women, it's like any 16 year-old girl.
you cry when you don't complete your domestic service.
i'm very happy with your parents, and i'm very happy with that.
people ask me, what's the special thing about my hometown that made me a bold and very brave, which made him speak and be stable
ask me, don't ask me what i did.
but let me tell you what i didn't.
i didn't take its wings out. that's all about it.
thank you very much.
thank you. thank you very much. thank you.
i had brain surgery 10 years ago since then, brain surgery became very good for me.
i'm actually a engineer.
first of all, let me say i joined recently with google's show group at google x and surgery i'm going to talk about today: work before you join google and on the side of google.
well, they're said, there's a shame disorder when it comes to surgery in the brain.
am i still smart is it
and if the answer isn't, can you gain intelligence over again
after i had a part of the brain and had to deal with it.
it wasn't part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was a dead part of the material that was turned into the brain center that controls hormone hormone hormones and major neurons.
right after surgery, i had to decide how much drugs i had to take every day, and that was to stop eating these materials, i would die within hours.
every day, since 10 years, every single day i had to decide the structure and combination of chemicals, and the combination of them, to survive.
he was making a lot of hard decisions.
but fortunately, i'm doing it, so i decided to try and find the best dose because there was no clear reference for that.
i started with him as a shock, and i was worried about how simple change in the mix can make a difference to her self, my feelings of self, my thinking and the lack of others.
one of the interesting situations: for two months i did a standard dose of a man in her 20s who was shocked how my ideas changed.
i was angry all the time, and i think sex is constantly, and i'm also smarter than ever, but also -- -- -- -- -- and of course over years i met young people like that, or i would be less likely to think less.
my case was extreme.
but what i did was not try to be an expert.
i was actually trying to be, with some feeling of loss of safety, to solve a problem that i face in front of me, but it didn't work.
so i couldn't possibly possibly say that.
i've changed the dose.
but, that experience, i think it gave me an estimate for men and why they might happen to them and also to share them with men that have become better since then.
what i was trying to do was to replicate and reproduce the hormones and to try to restore my missing intelligence after disease and my thoughts of creativity and ideas.
and i often think through images, even when i was interested in getting these mental images that i used in elementary models, if you will, with your experience, different ideas of size, and unexpected experience.
this kind of thinking isn't new.
philosophers like "la o," and "la o o," saw that in exactly the same way.
they all thought mental and ideas were the same thing.
there are some who are actually more likely to be more likely to be there right now, and many of the arguments about the work of the mind, but to me they're simple: mental images, for the majority of us are essential to creative thinking.
so after several years, i've been able to balance myself and i've had lots of living mental images with a large level of convincing and analyzing myself a lot.
so i'm working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to a computer screen faster
can you imagine, if i could, a film writer that could only be used as a movie in front of the world
or a musician capable of getting music out of its brain
these are amazing possibilities for the heroes of the poets who were inspired by their ideas at the speed of light.
and the fact is that despite the obstacles to doing this is to extend the perception to brain systems.
so let me introduce you to why i think we're sort of close with two two very common groups of two of the best neurons.
they both use functional mri technology to photograph the brain, and this is a picture of the brain from his colleague and his colleagues at harvard university.
on my left column shows a picture of someone who's taken me into a picture.
the middle bar shows the same brain scan as imagine and seeing the same picture.
and the two on the right has shown that the middle and right two worlds have come out and the difference is hardly there.
and it's been done on many people. with many different pictures, with the same result always.
the difference between seeing a picture and imagining the same image, there's hardly any difference.
follow, let me talk to you about another experiment, which is a lab from the north valley lab at california.
they were able to activate brain waves and turn them into an visual field that we can recognize.
and let me introduce you to this.
in this experiment, people have been shown hundreds of hours of video from a website while the imaging of brain activity to create a bigger library than brain reactions to groups of videos.
then a new film is shown with new images, new ones, different animals, and during that it's been scanning activity for new species.
computer computer, only scanning data and will simulate that brain activity to the image and actually show people what to watch.
on the right-hand side, you see computer analysis, on the left side, the real video.
the result is interesting and exciting.
we're so close to doing that.
we just need to improve precision.
now remember when you see an image versus imagine the same image, that gives you the same survey of the brain.
this has been done with better precision to scan the brain available now and the speed of these multiple nodes has actually evolved thousands of times over the last few years.
so we need better precision to get a deeper glimpse.
how do we do that
there are many techniques for this.
one is, breaking away two dead people directly.
i'm not in favor of that.
there are many imaging techniques that have been introduced, some that have been offered for our own purposes, but based on current mri, first we need to ask, are this the end of this technology
conventional wisdom says that the death of the killing is more precise than the size of it, but through just the size of its genome, it provides some extra extra improvements in a certain way, not a thousand times faster than what we want.
i'll give you an idea instead of a bigger magnet, to make a better magnet.
there are many techniques that are applied to nanotechnology when they're applied in the magnet industry that are produced from new types of magnet, and in that technology, we can get very detailed and clear magnetic fields all over the brain parts, and with this, we can get three-dimensional patterns and patterns that are <UNK> them on very precisely patterns, and they
we can create more complicated structures that are actually doing a little bit of a breathing disorder.
so why is this important
many efforts for mri use over the years when the industry has gone up to larger sizes, and they're growing very large, right
yet many improvements in real photography are actually good enough of smart solutions to analysis in specialized frequencies that are used in mri systems.
also, instead of a single magnetic magnet we use specific patterns of patterns and also other patterns of waves of waves.
so, by engaging pockets with radio waves of radio waves that can dramatically increase the information we can extract from one scan.
and in addition, we can half everything we learned about brain structure and memory to get improvement by 1,000 times what we need.
and with functional mri technology, we could measure not just blood flow and blood flow, but measure the hormones of the neurons that were already talked about, and also maybe direct neural activity, which is dream.
a market can convey us things like digital media.
can you imagine that we can go beyond language and communicate directly through human ideas
what can we do then
and also how can we learn to deal with human ideas that haven't been cut
you think the internet is big.
there are huge barriers.
it may be an unfair way to tell us our ideas and our communication skills.
so i'm going to try to do this same tool that might lead to a cure for alzheimer's and disease as well.
we have enough choices to make them open up the door.
some look, pick up years will that happen in 10 years
it's hard to imagine you need longer.
we need to learn how to do this step together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about coming out, not as typical as hearing it, not about sexual need.
i think we all have secrets.
your argument might be to tell someone you love for the first time or tell someone you're pregnant or tell someone you're having cancer or start any other difficult conversation we've come through during our lives.
every talk about secret, which is a hard talk, although our intelligence may be much different, but an experience of living and freedom from our own is a global experience.
it's scary to remember, but we have to do it.
some years ago, i was working at south carolina's town in town, which is a local restaurant in town, and while i worked, i was running through very difficult struggle for girl: i was doing these songs of song i was de la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la.
and depending on my pants' "<UNK> '" and how recently i've been passed my head, the question often has spread off me, usually by a little kid: "are you a boy or a girl"
there would be embarrassing silence on the table.
my jaw <UNK> slightly more <UNK> i carry a coffee pot and i slightly more.
father does a paper that is constantly moving and thinks about her baby and her mother.
but i'm not saying anything, and i stay inside.
i got to a point where every time i walked into a table where a child was three or 10 years old, i was willing to fight.
and this is a terrible feeling.
so i promised myself, next time i would say something.
i'm going to go into that hard discussion.
so within weeks, that happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
familiar silence, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all the women's studies at this table; i have a quote from my house as a teacher.
i have a quote by "gentleman," i have a quote by example.
i even have a few clips from "lean" and "jeopardy."
so i took a deep breath and looked down and from staring at me is a four year-old girl in a pink dress, not a challenge for feminist's dress, just a child who had a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another deep breath, sat down and i sat down next to it, and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of embarrassing.
my hair's a little hair like a boy, i'll wear baby clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear a pink dress, sometimes you want to wear your comfortable clothes
well, i'm that kind of girl who has been more happy sleeping clothes. "
she looked at me carefully, without any trouble remembering, she said, "my favorite sleep is ultraviolet with fish.
can i get a pie, please "
and so it was it. just, "oh, okay, you're a girl.
what about that pie "
it was the easiest difficult conversation i ever had.
and why because the pie girl and i, we were both real together.
so like many of us, i lived inside a few tanks in my life, and yes, most of the time, my ancestors happened to be a rainbow.
but inside, in darkness, you cannot say what color these walls are.
you only knew what she felt to live in a closet.
so really, my clothes are not different than you or you or you.
sure enough, i'm going to give you 100 reasons why my experience was harder than your experience, but here's where the horse comes from: a difficult word isn't relatively difficult.
difficulty is hard.
who can tell me that someone else has announced that you have announced their argument is harder than telling someone you've just been giving them
who can tell me that your story is harder than telling your child five years old is you going to divorce
there's nothing harder; it's just hard.
we need to stop our problems with other problems in order to be able to reduce ourselves or to be a burden on our problems and to recognize the fact that we all suffer from difficulty.
at some point in our lives, we all live inside the tanks, which we might feel safe, or at least safer than behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter anything that's made for my family, the closet isn't a place for living a human being.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
for me, i had two horse shoes, and i would wear shoes and shoes high.
i wasn't ready to stay engaged with any four year-old boy coming into the cafe.
i was frozen by fear, and i was lying at the dark corner holding the sex bomb, and any movement was the most compelling thing i ever did.
my family and friends and friends -- i spent my entire life trying to hide and not be innocent, but now i turn things upside down right.
i've been blowing pages of scenario that long enough and big impact on them, so if you don't get away with that bomb, you're going to be spending you.
one of the most alive memories i gave bombs was at my sister's marriage party.
this was the first time i was given a lot to know that i was gay, and during doing the best thing, in the black equivalent of the high school, i was walking around the tables and then i stopped my parents' friends who were sitting on them, people who were worried about me since my parents.
shortly after my talk, one woman sang, "i love sebastian!"
then i started a war compared to orgasm.
"oh, did you call me to think of design before"
"well, yes, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we haven't been there before but we heard it's amazing."
"oh, do you know margaret lee o'clock
he's really a good guy who never talked about his girlfriend. "
"oh, what's your favorite television program
our favorite program my favorite: will will be taken away.
and you know who we love jack.
jack is my favorite. "
then one woman, confused but wanted to show her support, and i noticed she was standing in my class, at the end of her said she said and she didn't think, "well, sometimes my husband is wearing pink pants."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody was throwing their shoes.
i can go back to my friend and to my gay table and to my master's table, and i'll keep her on my shoulders by jumping through the sex power that we brought with me, or i can trust them and i can notice that maybe it was the hardest thing they did, that i start to play with that debate was going
sure enough, it was easy to point out what they felt like to protect them.
they find their situation much more difficult and recognize the fact that they were trying.
what would you recommend someone who didn't try
if you're trying to trust someone else, you must be ready for your attention.
so the sharp conversations are still not my strength point.
ask anyone who wants them.
but i'm getting better, and i follow what i like to call a "girl three principles."
now please look at it through somebody's perspective like me, but do you know what it takes to come out basically is the same thing.
number one: be your brother.
take the out. be yourself.
the kid at the cafe had no arms, but i was ready for a fight.
if you want someone to be honest with you, he needs to know that you're also complaining.
number two: be obvious; just keep them up. fill them up.
if i'm gay, i agree with him.
if you told your parents that maybe you might be your parents, they would have hope for that change.
they don't make them feel a false choice.
and number three, and most importantly -- don't follow me.
you tell your answer.
i never thought about it.
some of them can hurt them over the way, so, i apologize for your own imagination, but never to worry about your truth.
indeed, some might be surprised by you, but that's your own, your own business.
these are their expectations around you, not your expectations.
that's their story; it's not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you want to write.
so next time you find yourself in the closet with the black leg holding your arms, i know we've all gone through it before.
you may feel very lonely, but you're not.
we know it's hard but we're here to show you, regardless of what's made of walls, because i guarantee you there are others staring through keys and looking at courage and looking at the door and seeing the door, so be that person and showed up to the world that we're bigger than their own and that the closet isn't
thank you, think of this. enjoy your attention.
intelligence -- what is it
if we look at the evolution of perspective into intelligence, one of the first examples was this famous quote by the famous quote by the quote that he said: "the question about whether the machine can think very closely about whether a cart can swim."
now, his favorite, when he wrote this, he meant his father as a computer scientist, like alan lee.
but if you look back and think about what is the most extraordinary material that we've been able to build artificial machines that swim and flying machines, you find that only by understanding physical mechanisms in swimming and flying, we can build these machines.
and so many years ago, i started a program to try to understand the basic physical mechanisms that are in intelligence.
let's step back.
let's start with an intellectual experiment.
imagine you're an alien that doesn't know anything about biology on earth or neuroscience on earth or intelligence on earth, but you have wonderful telescopes that you can see earth, and you have a very long life, so you can see earth over millions, but billions of years.
and i saw a really strange effect.
i saw, during their wake, the earth was constantly beaten up until some point, and this at some point, it would be almost like a bird, 2,000 after birth, that asteroids that hit earth which were supposed to bounce differently or have been broken before they had gone out on earth.
now of course, earth's worth, we know why we might be trying to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent collision.
but if you're an alien that doesn't know any of this, and you don't have any concept of climate intelligence, you're forced to create a physical theory that explains how, until some point in time, asteroids that are going to shine a planet that stopped doing it.
so i'm saying this is the same question in understanding physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program i've been looking at a few years ago, i looked at a variety of subjects in science, and in many areas, which were pointing, i think, to an underlying mechanism, alone for intelligence.
in cosmology, for example, there were many different topics that tell us that our universe seems to be highly organized in a very accurate way of developing intelligence, and especially, to develop cosmic conditions which increase the diversity of potential time.
in games, for example, in the game of el rica -- everybody mentioned in 1997 when we beat the deep blue that any of me or the head mother of chess -- a few people realize that in almost 10 years ago, in a game of mine, it's said it's a much more challenging game because she has a much more noisy
they're technologies that are trying to increase future choices as much as possible during play.
ultimately, in motor planning, there are many new technologies that have tried to harness robots' capabilities to increase the freedom of future behavior to the highest borders of complex tasks.
so, taking all these topics and i'm going to share them with some of them, i wondered, a few years ago, are there an underlying technology for intelligence that we can take away from all these different topics
is there any single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yeah. [t & amp; t] that you see is probably the closest for an e to e = allen intelligence i've seen in my life.
so what you see here is an argument that intelligence is forced by, t, which is working on increasing freedom of future behavior.
it works on increasing freedom of future behavior to the highest borders, or keeping choices available, using some t power, with future time diversity possible, an app, even future time landscape, by youre called.
in short, intelligence doesn't like to be happy.
intelligence loves to increase the freedom of future behavior to the very extreme borders and keep the choices open.
and so, having this single equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
how much can they be
does human intelligence predict
does artificial intelligence predict
so i'm going to show you a video now which, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this single equation.
narrator: i proposed modern research in cosmology that universes that produce more chaos or "atheist," throughout their lifetime must tend to be more intelligent and more intelligent creatures.
but what if this temporary relationship between two and intelligence suggests something deeper
what if behavior and behavior isn't just related to producing long-term trends, but actually it's directly emerging from them
to discover this, we developed a software engine called el lee, designed to increase the production of long-term goods for any system that he finds himself.
amazingly, our intelligence tests were able to succeed in multiple animal intelligence tests, in human games, even in a stock money, all without giving them instructions to do that.
these are some examples of our evidence actually.
just as a human standing straight without being standing up here, you see two molecules being easily held using a cart.
this behavior is particularly extraordinary because we've never given our goal.
he decided that he would break the stick.
this ability to balance will have applications in human robots and technology for human help.
just as animals use things as tools to get into narrow spaces, here we see two dimensions, again as individual vehicles, able to move a big disk represents an animal elsewhere to make a small disk, which represents a tool, up into a small space where there's a third disk and third disk from its original position.
this tool uses its ability to have applications in industry and smart agriculture.
also, just as some other animals can cooperate to pull the rope off at the same time to feed food, here we see that our bodies can achieve a typical version of that task.
this ability to cooperate interesting applications for economic planning and many other areas.
your applications have vast applications in many fields.
for example, here we see it playing successfully in a loud game against itself, and it shows its ability to play.
here we see new connections going on on a social network where friends will constantly connect with friends and keep them successful in connecting good to the network.
this ability to mimic applications also in healthcare, energy, intelligence.
here we see the two ships running the lanes of ships, successfully discovering and uses the titanic channel and grow its journey from the atlantic ocean into the pacific ocean.
using the same model, it's been used for vast uses of conservation problems, for rehabilitation and mobility services.
finally, here we see two secrets that are discovering regularly and run a plan to buy cheap, sell high price on the financial paper market for reality, and increase the property that's run successfully.
this ability to organize risk will have vast applications in economics and insurance.
alex <UNK>: so what you've just seen is that a bunch of smart cognitive behaviors like human beings with tools and walking through their bodies and social cooperation are all following one equation, which is creating a system that is creating a system that is saving their freedom to act on the future.
now, there's a deep irony here.
going back to the beginning was always the notion that if we develop robotic intelligence, there will be a mechanical revolution.
they will turn off the mechanisms against us.
one of the big consequences for this work is that perhaps throughout all these decades, we had the reverse concept of the mechanical revolution.
it's not that machines are getting smart at first and then they're going crazy bone and trying to control the world.
it's exactly the opposite: that the tendency to control all future times is more fundamental than intelligence principle, that the aspects of general intelligence can actually be directly removed from control, rather than the other way around.
another important point is to find out what's the goal.
i'm often asked, how can you explain the ability to find goals in this framework
and the answer is, the ability to look for goals can be explained directly from this sense of following: as you go through a tunnel, a bottle in your future space, to achieve many other goals later, or as you invest in financial change, reduce your long-term growth in order to increase your long-term wealth, the search for a direct goal
long-term motivation for raising freedom of your future behavior.
and finally, richard feynman, a known physicist, once wrote that if human civilization was destroyed and i was able to give one principle only to help them rebuild civilization, that principle must be that all of the matter around us must be made of small elements that attract each other when they're moving away but they will be able to get closer together
my version of this quote is to give our grandchildren to help them build aspects of artificial intelligence or help them understand human intelligence, which is this: intelligence should look at it as a physical process that tries to increase the freedom of future behavior to the far borders and avoid constraints in their future.
thank you very much.