i'm going to talk to you about 30 years from the history of engineering.
this is a big deal for your attention in 18 minutes.
it's a complicated subject, so we're going straight into a complicated place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i was from new jersey, i was six years old, and i was living there with my father in a town called la lee, and this was my bedroom.
at the corner of my room there was a toilet that i shared with my sister.
and in my room and a morning, there was a scene in front of the living room.
and there was where everybody would come to see tv, so every time i'd go from my room to the bathroom, everybody would see me, every time i'd take my glass off, everybody would see me.
i looked like this.
i felt weird, uncomfortable, so i hated that feeling.
i hated that. that coat, i hated that room, and that house.
and that's architecture.
he ended.
that feeling, those feelings that we're making, those are the power of architecture, because architecture isn't mathematical mathematics, but those are the round sensory angles that we're moving on.
and it's not surprising that we feel this way, because according to environmental protection agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
it means 90 percent of our time and we're surrounded by engineering.
this is huge.
which means that engineering determines who we are in ways we haven't already known.
what makes us feel something, and we can predict what we want very easily.
that means when i show you a building like this, i know what you think: you think of it as power and stability and democracy.
and i know you're thinking this way because it's based on building a foundation of fifty cents ago by the greeks.
that's the trick.
this is the driver that engineers use to create that emotional connection with the shapes we build buildings.
it's an unexpected emotional link, and we used it a long time ago.
we used it 200 years ago to build banks.
we used it in the 19th century to build art museums.
and in the 20th century in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young, poor, poor soldiers, and they share the ocean with risks.
this is very useful because building things is terrifying.
it's expensive; it takes a long time; it's very complicated.
and who's building these things -- developers and governments -- are naturally afraid of innovation, and they're better willing to use them only by those forms that they know you're going to enjoy.
so we finally get buildings like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is a library of public space that has been done in 2004 in my hometown, and it has, you know, a dome and that circular thing, which has columns, and you can guess what you're trying to say through this building: children, the values of the history.
but it doesn't have much to look at what libraries are doing today.
that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, it was finished building another library; it looked like this.
in seattle.
this library is about how we consume media in digital time.
they form a kind of public immune to the city, a place to accumulate their opinions and their opinions.
so how might it be that in the same year, in the same country, both sides, both sides of their families, two completely different languages
and the answer is that engineering works on a cosmic basis.
on the first side we find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing into the direction of new technologies, studying new symbols, new solutions to how much we live today.
that's that we pay and push and push until we're going to push them all together.
we wear black clothes, we put them in, and we think we're going to get stuck inside us because eventually we don't have another option.
we've got to turn on to the other side and bring it back to those symbols that we know you're going to meet.
we do this as happy, and we feel as if it's going to rise, and we get it back and forth again and back again and forth, and we've done this over the last 300 years. and certainly over 30 years.
30 years ago, we'd just come out of the 1970s.
engineers were then busy testing something called violent architecture.
it has to do with concrete.
you can guess.
small windows, by the scales.
this is extremely difficult.
we get closer to the 1980s, and we started to engage these symbols.
and she gave him a kiss on the other side.
we take those shapes that we know that you're making us make our own.
we add our company and we add our company to new materials.
let's take it off.
we can't afford enough.
we take the english palace and we send them back to turkish, so it can be a glass of middle ages.
growing up, it became color and more dense.
men became the size of the columns.
it grew as big as buildings.
that was crazy.
but it's the 1980s, so it's great.
we all meet in the trade harbor and all go to live in the suburbs, and there, in the suburbs, we can create geometry.
and these are expands can be french or french or whatever.
maybe they would have <UNK> <UNK> <UNK>.
this is an idea after urbanization.
this is the idea about symbols.
they're easy, cheap, because instead of building places, we make memories of places.
because i know, and i know you all know, this isn't my fault.
<UNK>.
so they're worried, so we start to rethink the clock down to the other side.
at the end of the '80s and early' 90s, we began to test what we call the
we started giving historical symbols away, and we applied them to new design techniques that were supported by computer design, and we went out with a bunch of new structures, from breaking down into shapes.
this is academic and hard stuff, and it's not quite fun; we're deeply engaged.
he usually points up the snail alone to come to the other side.
then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is the diaspora with the frank wilson's attention.
and this building has fundamentally changed the relationship to the world of engineering.
paul walker said that his daughter had been one of those big signs when psychologists would completely absorb and fully question about a building.
new york times looked at this building as its own.
cambodia has doubled by 2,500 percent after this building is finished.
suddenly, everybody wanted one of these buildings: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, ohio.
everybody wanted a similar building, and i started walking around everywhere.
it's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how could it be possible for these forms -- the most extraordinary and traditional forms -- how could they be around the world
this happened because the media worked very quickly in their studio that these shapes meant culture and culture.
i'm going to call them emotional reaction towards these shapes.
he also did every mayor of town in the world.
so every mayor knows that if they're making forms like this, they have culture and culture.
this phenomenon has happened with the beginning of the new millennium of some other stars.
i got along with my lab, and what happened with these few elite engineers with the beginning of the new millennium was starting to influence the field of engineering as a whole, where digital media started to increase the speed we consume information.
think about how you might like engineering.
and for 1,000 years, you had to walk towards the nearby village to see a building.
transportation speed goes up: you can navigate a ship; you can take an airplane; you can be an airplane.
the speed of technology goes up: you can see it in the newspaper, or on tv, at the end, we're all engineers and engineers, and the building's spirit has been rejected from the site.
engineering is everywhere right now, which means that the speed of communication has finally finished with engineering.
because engineering is moving quite rapidly.
it doesn't require to think about designing a building that's long.
it's built that takes a long time, three or four years ago, and at that time, an engineer and an engineer or eight or 100 other buildings before he knew whether he made the building that he designed four years ago or not.
that doesn't exist in engineering as a fake feeding loop.
so we end up doing things like this.
it's not just the messy architecture movement two years ago; it's 20 years old.
20 years ago we were coming out of buildings like this because we didn't know how much we were going to be.
this will not happen again, i think, because we live on a edge of one of the greatest engineering revolutions since the invention of concrete, metal or elevator, and what comes from a media revolution.
so my argument is that when media apply to their watch an hour, it starts moving faster and faster, until it gets to the top <UNK> side, and this really shows the difference between creativity and symbols, between each other, between engineers, between you and public.
we can now create <UNK>, emotionally motivated symbols from something completely new.
let me show you how this works by my company's project recently.
we were brought together by this building that was destroyed.
this is a city center called the jungle park in new york state.
she's a crowd of people.
we proposed to sleep for courage; it was different from all the buildings that the population came back; we were scared; our client was scared; he was scared; we gave them a series of real concepts and we put them on facebook and we put them on facebook and we put them on facebook; and we gave people start doing what they
but this meant that two years before the building was finished, the building was already part of society, and when the symmetries look exactly the same as the final product, there wouldn't be any difference.
this building was already part of the community, and then in the first summer of then, when people began to share and share pictures of social media, the building was no longer just a building but it became a building, because these aren't just pictures of their own images; they're what you're calling you to this building.
and when you're using your devices as your own, they become part of our own behavior, and what you're doing is you're giving the way to our collective memory, and these emotional symbols are being turned on for us.
that means that we don't need to be surprised anymore; we need to think about engineering.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media hasn't changed our relationship to each other, but also our relationship between us and buildings.
think for a moment in the library entrepreneurs there in their garage.
if that building was built today, the first thing they were going to do was go online and look for new libraries.
so let's consider examples of tests, about creativity, and think deeper about what the library is.
those are the puppet.
those are the settings that we can take with them and share them with them, with our friends and our colleagues, and let's say there's no single definition of what the library is today.
let's be part of this.
there were many experiments giving them freedom for their money.
everything is different now.
engineers no longer use these mysterious words that are hard to use, and they never went back to that audience, that customer who won't accept anything they've never seen before.
engineers listen to you. you'll be afraid of engineering.
that means that an hour clock that's turning forward and backwards from one way to another, from movement to movement, has no meaning anymore.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions to problems our society faces.
this is the end of the history of engineering, which means tomorrow's buildings will look much different than buildings today.
what it means is that public spaces in the ancient city can be unique and organized in how new city works.
what it means is that our tradition in brooklyn can be found there, it can't be a historical tradition of a red tradition as we think it should be in a field.
that means robots build our buildings, because we're finally ready to engage the shapes they'll create.
it also means that building blocks with nature's bodies are not the opposite.
this means that a car garage in miami beach in florida can be a place for sports and sports and you can also get there late at night.
this means that three engineers dream of swimming in the east river in new york, and they're going to spend about half a million dollars of people who come around their case, they don't even have one customer anymore.
it means that never building is smaller than creating it, and this little priest is strong and powerful like the animals he designed for.
and that means that you shouldn't build what's beautiful to be loved, like this little, ugly building in spain, where engineers dig a hole, fill it up with a concrete hole around it, and when a cement dry, they let someone come up with the cheese until there's nothing left except this hidden little room filled with their clothes
which became one of the most magical places to watch spanish spring.
because it doesn't matter whether a cow is from our buildings or a robot built.
it doesn't matter how we build, what matters is what we build.
engineers already know how to build more friendly buildings with more intelligent and easier use buildings.
we were just going to let all of us know about it.
finally, we never had the interview anymore.
so i'm a engineer, i'm using engineer, i'm working with us to design better buildings, better cities, better cities, because standards are high.
it doesn't reflect the buildings of our society; it determines our bodies through the simplest spaces: local libraries, houses where we raise our children; the house that takes them from the bedroom to the bathroom.
thank you.
this is my brother's niece.
i just turned years old and started walking.
she walked in this wonderful way for the entire child in her first year where she was born.
it's absolutely wonderful.
and one of the most favorite things she has right now is to stare herself in the mirror.
they certainly love their implications in the mirror.
and you laugh and you're laughing at them and you accept themselves these big reactors.
it's a beautiful thing.
and all her friends seemed to do it, and my mother told me i was also doing it, and this invited me to think about when i stopped doing it
when suddenly it becomes not as good to love our appearance
because obviously we don't like our appearance.
every month, ten thousand people are looking at google, "am i ugly"
these were 13 years old, and they're living in do.
like any teenager you want to be loved and accepted.
it's sunday night.
she's preparing for school next week.
she's a little bit scared and crazy because even though her mother told her all the time she's beautiful every day at school, somebody tells her she's ugly.
because of the difference between what her mother says and what her mother says in school doesn't know.
so imagine a video of herself putting them on youtube and asking people to write a comment: "am i beautiful or ugly"
well, up until now, i've got leymah comment.
some of the comments are awful, even though they didn't care about thinking about it.
this is an ordinary teenage girl who's got an ordinary healthy baby to give you a pair like this at the most sensitive emotional times of her life.
thousands of people publish videos like this, most of them as teenagers who communicate this way.
but what did they make them do
well teenagers these days rarely be alone.
they're under pressure to be on the web all the time talking and sending messages like this.
and i comment and publish -- this is never finished; we never had this connection with such a continuous, immediate form and a young lady.
as one mother told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
simply, there isn't any privacy.
and social pressures that go along this tough.
this environment of constant coming to our children is able to estimate the value of themselves by how many of their mistakes they get and the kind of comments they gain.
there's no separation between life online and life out there.
it's hard to distinguish what's real and what's fake.
and it's also very difficult to distinguish between what's authentic and what's digital.
what matters for everyday events
where are they looking for inspiration
let's see how many pictures fill up girls' news sources these days.
our models are much more complex than the platforms.
it became normal to reconstruct the features of our own, and we became able to see how we looked at them.
it's about your hometown.
it's an example that tends to lose mental loss.
these trends are a very physical view of women in public culture.
it's not hard to know what girls compare themselves.
but kids aren't infected either.
they're seeing plenty of layers and <UNK> <UNK> and singers, but what's wrong with all this
of course we want them to evolve as individuals as individuals, but as a culture of culture, we are raising them.
they need to spend time and effort and value their social interests and their physical skills.
take a classroom which starts to fall apart.
six out of 10 girls are choosing not to do a job, but they're not enough beautiful.
we're not talking about high activities; they're basic activities like individuals who are obsessed with community 100 percent, about 1,000 teenagers.
they're going to get rid of the conversations in class not sharing because they don't want to.
she pointed out their appearance: one out of every five lost school when you're not skeptical about their appearance, let's talk about tests when you think you don't look so well.
especially if you think you're not your fault.
they're going down to less than your colleagues.
those who don't worry about this have been shown in finland and the united states and china, regardless of your weight.
more <UNK> we're talking about.
think about your shape -- not your real shape.
low trust, they cut down the classroom level, and they destroy health when the teenager's confidence is less comfortable, and they eat the fruit and vegetables.
they make no healthy food.
which leads to eating and south disorders, has a level of self estimate.
it makes them more depressed and more depressed than others to be depressed and all these things make them more likely to drink alcohol and to take drugs.
they eat no healthy food, they engage in sexual practices and harm themselves.
the pursuit of the perfect body is burned for hospitals.
our government costs billions of dollars every year and we don't stop women who can believe it.
regardless of whether they're actually going to get more work done by cutting down work interview a day when you don't feel confident and confident.
let's think about what's wrong with our economy.
what do we expect if we beat those resources
but how do we do that
talk alone about problems.
it's not enough to solve them.
if we want to make a difference, we need to do something.
there are three ways to create change: awareness of the importance of trust; we need to teach teenagers.
how to overcome pressure seems to appear perfectly and how they build their respect for their self.
it's good to have programs that mean that right now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come to their outcome when i knew that a lot of these good programs were happening.
it increases worse than nothing, and therefore we should make sure that our children don't get any good software.
it always leaves an impact that studies show that the best awareness programs are defined by fundamental aspects.
first of all, family impact and friends and second social impact effect, and then dealing with peer media and peers how to compete and compare ourselves to others based on their families and talk about appearance and other respect for self and care about them.
these six key points for anyone who's serious at the beginning are really interested in trust and confidence.
education and awareness matters very important, but this problem requires us all of us to be good role models for women and girls.
and the challenge of reality has been to show women in our societies.
we don't have to judge the efficiency of our feet by making hair or breast size or expect to succeed like hell because it doesn't run its beautiful beauty.
we need to see people don't feel bad.
we need to care about what kind of images we share and the comments we've made in social networks.
we need to get people involved in the effort they've made and the businesses they've made, not their shape.
let me ask you when was the last time you accepted a mirror
and ultimately we need to work together as communities and governments and entrepreneurs to change this culture and our children's values to appreciate their respect, their respect, the diversity and prosperity.
you have to get people involved in society and people who are engaged in the world.
and we bring them up and when we do that, then we can create change.
we want to create a world where our children feel free to be the best of what they can consider to be a world where they don't want to know what they want.
think about what it's going to mean for anyone in your life.
who would have thought
is she your wife
and your sister
your daughter
his son and his son
your girlfriend or maybe she's a woman who's not away from you anymore.
what does it mean to her if she had been replaced by that critic's voice, which she wanted to make her more likely to make her body longer or to clean up her belly or smaller
what does it mean for her if we beat this up and we're going to fight it because of that
today, our culture has been fascinated by us.
but let's show our kids the truth.
let's show them that their appearance is only one part of their identity and that we love them and their actions and their actions.
let's integrate the self in our school approaches.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to others.
let's work together as a community of roots to governments to make happy children today, makers of change and change themselves tomorrow.
let's do that.
on the fifth of my england, 1990, a man called mr. lee went to a hotel in manhattan and killed the shepherd's priest, the leader of the jewish defense department.
it wasn't originally convicted of being killed but when he was spending time on cheaper issues, he was planning with other men who were attack on tens of sites in new york city, including a prison and a jewish temple and a u.n. headquarters.
fortunately, these plans were touched by an fbi agent.
unfortunately, the year of 1993 for the world trade center did not cheat.
it was ultimately convicted of being done in the process.
mr. being my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, an egyptian engineer, an american mother who was loved, she was a primary class teacher, and she was brought together everything in her classroom to live happy childhood.
i was seven years old; my family's vital was changing.
when my father came to the side of islam by a few people, including most muslims, they weren't to see him.
my own experience says that when people take their time to communicate with each other, it doesn't require effort to realize that at all, we can all forget about the same things in life.
but instead, in every religion, in every community, you will find a few people who are so excited and excited that they feel they should use all the necessary means for others to live as they do.
a few months before he was arrested, he explained to me that over the course of the last weeks, some of his friends were going to photograph me on long island in order to practice goals.
and he told me i was going to leave her next morning.
we came up with an electron square, which was, without our group science, we were taken by the fbi.
when my turn came to shoot, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explained how i had to prepare the target after 30 yards.
that day, he would hit another bullet by giving up the little orange light that was over the target and what was surprising to everybody, especially to me, that the whole goal had collapsed its sun.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and he said, "son of his dad."
that's a lion from that lion.
and apparently they were getting stuck on this comment, but it took me a few years to understand exactly what they thought was funny.
they thought they saw me in me the same destruction that my father could do.
these guys had eventually won an agreement on a small truck with 1,500 pounds hanging out onto the ground floor and put cars into the north trade center center, and they led to the killing of six more than 1,000 other people.
these guys were my role models.
these were some of my favorite <UNK>, which means "my uncle."
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, this instability during my childhood didn't really give me an opportunity to recognize many friends.
every time i start to feel comfortable with someone, it's the period that we have to collect our television and move to the next city.
and being a new student in the classroom, i was often vulnerable.
i couldn't hide my identity from my colleagues in the department to avoid my identity, but it turned out that, being my new pacific boy in the classroom was actually a very good, ridiculous magnet.
so most of the time, i was spending my day at home watching books and watching tv or playing video games.
and for those reasons, i had no social skills, at least estimate, and i could not afford to face the real world.
i grew up with a judge on people based on two scales, like race or religion.
so what opened my eyes
one of my first experiences that challenged my thinking was during the 2000 presidential election.
during my university university program i was a member of the national council of youth in philadelphia.
my own group was focused on young violence, and being a victim of most of my life, which was a subject i was particularly excited about.
members of the group were different to life.
one day, at the end of the council, i discovered that one of the children who was a jewish was.
now, it took me several days to come up with these details on the surface, and i realized that there was no natural lighting among us.
i had never had a jewish friend before, and frankly i felt proud that i could overcome a obstacle that i had been fascinated by my entire life to believe it was impossible to overcome.
a big turning point happened when i found an amazing job at george bush, which is like a zoo.
there, i met people of various beliefs and cultures, and it turns out that this experience was essential to my personality development.
for most of my life, i've been told that racism is the event, and therefore, all gay people have negative impact.
and i happened to have the opportunity to work with gay actors in a show there, and soon i found out some of them were a bright, and the least people had the judgment on others.
having been fascinated by me when i was a kid who had created me a kind of empathy with other people's suffering, and it seemed unusual to me at all to remind people of anything else other than what i'd like to enjoy.
thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a kid with real life experience and deal with people.
i don't know what it means to be gay, but i know what it means to worry about something outside my god.
and then the science program came along.
and john stewart <UNK>, every night i had to be honest with myself about his values and his faith to realize that he had nothing to do with your religion or their religion or whether to be sexual quality of his personality.
sometimes he was a father's character for me when i was yesterday needed to fight him.
inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and being a jewish comedy has made a lot more sense to touch my vision of the world than my old father did, i'm no longer losing that for me.
one day, i was talking to my mother about my view of the world that started changing, and she told me something i would always hold in my heart forever.
she looked down at me with my eyes and watched her experience enough in his life, and she said, "i'm tired of hate people."
at that moment, i realized how much negative energy i could hold those hatred into you.
dr. abraham isn't my real name.
when my family decided to cut down my parents' side and start a new life.
so why did i get out into public and put myself into a potential situation
well, it's simple.
i do this by hoping that maybe someone might have forced me to use violence might listen to my story and realize that there's a better way, that if you're vulnerable to that violence, and if you're uncomfortable with it, it hasn't been broken.
instead, i chose to use my experience to fight against terrorism, against prejudice.
i'm doing this for victims of terrorism and abuse, loss and loss of loss that terrorism has created for its life.
for the victims of terrorism, i'm going to talk out loud against these works to teach my father what my father did.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not a matter of religion or race, and that the son is not supposed to follow his father's path.
i'm not dad.
thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. thank you. all of you. thank you very much.
now, you've got a movie that goes inside your head.
it's a wonderful, brilliant film.
he's going to be able to see 3d and high-tech technology of what you're seeing as a musician right now, but this is just the beginning.
your film has a smell of paint and mirror.
it feels your body, your body and your body.
it has feelings, from anger and happiness.
it has memories, like scenes of your childhood being run in front of you.
it has this continuous voice comment in the stream of your conscious mind.
at the heart of this film you're testing all this directly.
this film is your consciousness stream, an experience of mind and world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental facts of human existence.
each one of us is conscious.
for each of us his internal film, you and you are too.
nothing we know a lot about right away.
at least, i know about my consciousness in a direct way.
i can't be sure you're conscious.
consciousness also makes life worth living.
if we're not conscious, nothing in our lives will be meaningful or valuable.
but at the same time, consciousness is one of the most mysterious phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these internal movies
why aren't we just robots treating all these input, producing all this output, without testing this interior film at all
right now nobody has answers to these questions.
i would suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is inherently objective.
consciousness is inherently subjective.
so there cannot be science for consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century this was the dominant view.
psychologists have studied behavioral psychology, and he has studied brain neuroscientists who are skeptical, and nobody even has ever come to mention consciousness.
until 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little scientific research on consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, all this started changing.
neuroscientists like francis williams and physicists like roger williams said it was time for science to study consciousness.
since then, there has been a real bang, scientific research prosperity about consciousness.
and this was a fantastic work. it was their privilege.
but it had some major constraints yet.
the axis of consciousness in recent years was to look for informed relationships, similar relationships between certain areas of the brain and specific conditions of consciousness.
we've seen some of this kind of work from work from work from work by joseph and the wonderful work i gave a few minutes ago.
now we understand much better, for example, the kinds of brain regions that go with conscious experience to see faces or pain or feeling happy.
but that remains the science of informed relations.
it's not explanation science.
we know that these regions of the brain are going to fit into certain kinds of conscious experiences, but we don't know why they're going with them.
i'd like to illustrate this by saying that this kind of work from neuroscience answer some of the questions we want answers about consciousness, questions about what some brain regions are doing and what they're related.
but somehow, these are easy problems.
without neuroscientists, they don't.
there isn't really easy in the problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't take real mystery to the core of this: why should all physical processing in the brain be associated with consciousness
why does this internal self-assembly film exist
now, we don't have anything to explain that.
you might say let's just give neuroscience a few years.
and i think it's going to be another emerging phenomenon like traffic congestion traffic traffic traffic, and like time also, like life, we'll create a solution for it.
classical evolution is all cases of emerging behavior, how traffic traffic is acting, how a hurricane works, how they've grown up the organism and they're going to fill it up, they're all questions about objective work.
you can apply this to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human function in the emerging brain: how we walk, how we talk, how we play chess, all of these questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, questions become questions about behavior among easy problems.
when it comes to the hard problem, the question becomes: why does all this behavior have an artificial experience
and here, the standard model of evolution, and even the standard model of neuroscience, doesn't really have much to say.
now, i'm a physical person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, and for a long time, my head in the wall is searching for a theory of consciousness in a pure physical terms that may work.
but eventually i came to the conclusion that it didn't just work for systematic reasons.
and this is a long story, but the basic idea is that what you get from pure explanations and pure explanations for physical terms, and your brain is stories about how the system works; it's built; it's dynamic; it's dynamic, and the behavior that it makes, and it's great for the easy problem of how we act
this is something completely new, and this is always another question.
so i think we're kind of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're familiar with that, but it explains physics, chemistry science, chemistry science, biology, parts of psychology.
but consciousness doesn't seem to fit into this picture.
on the one hand, it's important to realize that we're conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to look at our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness now is kind of an extraordinary situation, which we need to combine to our vision of the world, but we don't see how it is yet.
in front of an unusual case like this, there might be a need for radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that looks at the beginning crazy before we can deal with scientific awareness.
now, there are a few reasons why these crazy ideas might be.
my friend dan williams, who's here today, has one.
his crazy idea is that there's no hard problem for consciousness.
the idea of the interior film all includes a kind of illusion or tension.
in fact, everything we need to do is explain objective functions, brain behavior, and then we've shown everything that needs to be explained.
well, i say i hope it has more power.
this is the kind of radical ideas that we need to predict if you want to get a <UNK> theory of consciousness based on your brain.
at the same time, to me, as many other people, this view is very close to denial about a conscious device simply to be able to hide.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
at the rest of time, i want to explore two ideas and ideas that i think may have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is the foundation.
sometimes physicists take some aspects of the universe as fundamental: place and time.
their laws are essential to control, such as the laws of gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and fundamental laws aren't <UNK> at any fundamental point.
instead, it's taken as natural, and here we build the world.
now sometimes, the key list goes on.
in the 19th century, there have been evidence that the electromagnetic phenomenon can't be explained by the current phenomena of space and time and newton's law, by assuming fundamental laws of electrical charge as a key component of these laws.
i think this is where we are with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in the current principles of space and time as a curve, if, from reason door, we need to expand the list.
the natural thing to do is to assume awareness itself as something fundamental, fundamental building of nature.
that doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens you the way to apply science.
what we need then is studying the fundamental laws that organize consciousness, laws that link consciousness to the other basic principle: place and time and physical processes.
physicists sometimes say we want rules that are so simple that they can write them on the front side.
well i think something like that is where we are in terms of consciousness.
we want rules that are so simple that we can write them on the front side and see them.
we don't know what those laws are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness may be worldwide.
every system can have some degree of consciousness.
this view is sometimes called the general psychology of psychology: "youre going to point out for the public," and "lean in, every conscious system, not only humans, dogs and flies and flies, but even <UNK> microbes, elementary particles.
even a rabbit has a certain degree of consciousness.
it's not to say that smart potatoes or they're thinking.
and it's not that the tasmanian devil is worried because he thinks, "unfortunately, i'm always going to move through the speed of light.
i could never slow down until the flowers slow down. "
no, not that.
but the idea is that worms may have some elements of raw sense, some primitive primates of consciousness.
this might sound a little bit like yours.
i mean, why would anyone think of this crazy thing
some motivation comes from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is essential, such as space and time, it's natural to assume that it may also be global, like they are.
it's important to know that even though the idea looks invisible to us, it's less intuitive for people than different cultures, where the human brain is more <UNK> by nature.
the deeper drive comes from the idea that perhaps the most simple and powerful way of finding basic laws that connect consciousness to physical implications is to link awareness to information.
wherever there is information processing, there is consciousness.
complex information processing, as in humans, means understanding complex.
and processing simple information means simple sense.
and what's really interesting is that in my last couple of minutes, the neuroscience scientist has actually taken this kind of theory and developed specifically with mathematical theory.
it's got a mathematical measure of information code called j, which measures integrated information within the system.
it's supposed to fit into consciousness.
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of integrated information, high level of computational, huge amounts of consciousness.
in the mouse, there's an average degree of information processing, which is still important, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when we get down into worms, worms, particles, they generate the amount of wi-fi.
it also gives you a lot of power, but it's still above zero.
in a theoretical theory, there will be zero degrees of consciousness.
in fact, he suggests an essential principle of consciousness: the higher the wi-fi degree, the more awareness.
now, i don't know if this theory is right, but it's actually, i think, the leading theory now in consciousness, and it's been used to combine a whole bunch of scientific data, and it has a beautiful property which is that it's actually very simple that you can write on the front side of your pocket.
the other motivation for psychology can help us combine awareness in the physical world.
and what physicists and philosophers have noticed is that physics is weird.
it describes the structure of reality using a bunch of equations, but it doesn't tell us what's behind them.
as stephen hawking says, what does he shoot in equations
well, according to general psychology, you can leave the equations of physics as they are, but you can make them describe the flow of consciousness.
this is really what physics does ultimately, describes the flow of consciousness.
from this perspective, consciousness is what puts fire in equations.
according to this view, consciousness doesn't fall out of the physical world as a kind of priority.
it's right at the heart of the physical world.
this perspective, i think, has the power to change our relationship to nature, and may have some very dangerous social and ethical consequences.
some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i should not eat anything that has consciousness, and therefore i should be a priest.
now, if you're a general psychologist and you take this opinion, you're going to be hungry.
so i think when you think about it, that will lead to changing your views, whereas what matters for moral purposes, not really consciousness is a big deal, but a degree of consciousness.
it's also natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.
what about the artificial intelligence system in the movie "j"
is it conscious
well, if you take the general psychology view, surely they have complex information processing and complicated information processing, so the answer is yes, they are conscious.
if that's true, that's why serious moral issues are about the ethic of developing intelligent computer systems and an opening property.
finally, you might ask about the consciousness of all groups, this planet.
does canada have its own recognition
or at a more local level, is an integrated group like the audience at ted, do we now have a special cognitive awareness of ted, an inner film of this collective ted group that's different from the internal movies for each part of our group
i don't know the answer to this question, but i think at least a question worth taking.
well, so general psychology's point of view is radical, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident about the first crazy idea, which is an essential awareness, than my confidence in the second idea, which i think you'll think of as an essential.
i mean, the perspective of a number of questions is made up of challenges, such as how those small pieces of consciousness are added into the kind of complex consciousness that we know and learn.
if we can answer those questions, we will get them to the right path towards a serious theory of consciousness.
and if we can't, this is probably the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we cannot expect to solve it overnight.
but i think we'll find a solution for it eventually.
understanding consciousness is the real key, i think, to understand the universe and understand ourselves, both.
we might need just the right crazy idea.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village at all.
growing up was normal.
i went to school with my friends and sisters with my little sisters.
all that was normal.
when i was 15, someone in our local community called my family and wanted my family to get an agreement to society.
and my dad said, "that's really nice, but there's only one clear problem.
she didn't actually do anything. "and they were right at that, you know.
i went to school; i got good degrees; i had a small job after school in my mother's song of poetry, and i spent a lot of time watching "killer of blood" and "rain."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but all of that was true.
i'd never done anything outside of the box.
i couldn't do anything that would be considered if i'd cut the disability out of the equation.
years later, i was in the course of the second teaching school at high school, and i was 20 minutes before the legal study of 11 years later, a boy raised his hand and said, "hey miss, when are you going to give your talk"
and they said, "what word"
you know, i've been explaining to them about the law of magnitude for 20 minutes.
and he added, "you know, your speech is fake.
you know, when people come to school, they usually say things and stuff.
"she's usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: this boy was the only experience with his own needs as an inspiration.
but we're not, for this boy who isn't that cool, i mean, that's true for many of us.
for many of us, the talented people are not our doctors or our nurses or our doctors.
we're not real people. we're real.
and actually, i'm sitting on this stage looking like i'm in this wheelchair and you're probably expecting me to wear it. isn't that right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i'm afraid my parents will fight us dramatically.
i'm not here to see you.
i'm here to tell you that we've been lying around disability.
yes, the lie that says that disability is something bad.
it's a bad thing, and living with disability is that it makes you extraordinary.
it's not the bad thing; it doesn't make you special.
in recent years, we've been able to publish this lie further through social media.
you may have seen pictures like this: "the only disability in life is bad behavior."
or this: "<UNK> is unacceptable."
or this: "before you stop, try!"
these are just a bunch of examples, but there are more examples.
you know, you may have seen this little girl without arms drawing a picture, holding his pen.
or you may have seen a child running over two fiber fibers.
and these pictures, there are lots of them all: what we call "inspiration."
and i use the term anyway, because they suck up one group of people for other groups.
that's why in this case, we're seeing the grateful for the informal.
the purpose of these images is to take them apart, to look at them and think, "well, no matter what my life is bad, you can miss them worse.
i could have been that guy. "
but what if i was that guy
i didn't count how many times strangers came to me telling me they thought i was brave or inspiring -- and this was before my work had kind of come out.
they used to wake up in the morning and remember my name.
and this brings them back to an instrument of these images, those images that hold their own needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they're out there to look at them and then you think everything isn't your fault for you. make all your mistakes in perspective.
and life as people who care is really very difficult.
we're going beyond some odds.
but those things that are moving beyond are not the ones that we're moving around.
it's not things about our bodies.
i use the term "blind people" on purpose because i am shared with what's called an disability social model, which tells us that we are more vulnerable to our bodies than we are or our own.
so i lived in this body for a long time.
and i love it very much.
the things i need to do, and i've learned to use them as well as you do, which is what kids do in those pictures too.
they don't do anything extraordinary about nature.
they use their bodies as well as higher as performance.
so, does it mean that if we spread out and <UNK> our way of doing this, we spread those images
when people say, "you are inspiring," i'm going to hate you.
and i know why that happens.
it's because of the lie, which they sold to us the lie that disability makes you an extraordinary person.
they don't actually.
and i know what you're thinking.
you know, i'm here to remind you of inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god, don't you sometimes miss some things"
and the thing is, yeah.
you learn from other people and people all the time.
but you don't know i'm much more likely than them.
i'm learning it's a genius idea to use that trap things that have fallen off you. i'm learning this remarkable trick how to charge your phone battery through your wheelchair battery.
genius!
we learn from each other from our own forces, our own forces, not against our bodies and our bodies but against our own world of our bodies.
i believe that that lie will tell us about disability is a huge corruption.
it makes life difficult for us.
and that saying, "the only disability in life is bad behavior," because that quote is nonsense is because it's not real, because of the social model of disability.
there's not enough room to turn it into the electric goat.
never! they're on tv that won't make the text out for innocent people.
there's not enough to stand in the middle of a library and radiation, a positive card than all those books are going to be made into a living language.
it will never happen.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception but the natural thing.
i want to live in a world where a 15 girl sitting in her room watching "the killer of blood justice" is not defined by her, except she has made something because she sees her.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations for people with disability where we're only going to take away from bed and remember their loved ones in the morning.
i want to live in a world where we appreciate what the real achievement of those with disability are, i want to live in a world where a child at 11 high school doesn't even be surprised by having a chair used.
disability doesn't make you nervous; thank you. it's about what you thought you knew it made you sick.
what does it have to do with flat and physical reality
and what's the speed of a flying bird
unfortunately, i won't answer one question today but also in addition to one question of these questions, so they tried to slow down.
when most people actually think about their own space, they think about "jeopardy" film and tom sits on their hands in the air, but its own space is not science fiction.
flat reality is something that will happen in our lives, and it will happen because we have tools to achieve it, and people have to realize that, because its flat reality will change our lives exactly as much as any other internet and mobile phone.
so how do we get to a flat reality
step one is the step i'm wearing right now, google glasses.
i'm sure google glasses are familiar with many of you.
what you may not think is google glasses are a device that allows you to see what i see.
i'll give you an experiment that feels like an expert in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try to describe it to you.
i must use words.
i've got to make sure you can do so well.
with google glasses, we can put this under a helmet, and we can feel what looks like an enemy in the field at 100 miles an hour, the blood is holding up in your ears.
you can feel something like having a 250 man who runs through you trying to cut your head all over your head.
and i've been in the audience for this person who doesn't feel good.
now, i have some footage to show you what it looks like to wear google glasses under a helmet to give you this feeling.
unfortunately, it's not some footage from my local football turn because my football turn thinks emerging technology is what happens when it's floating around, but we -- we do what we can.
so let's watch some videos.
chris anderson: come on.
ah, exposure is terrible.
hey let's get a little closer.
ready
come on!
ca: so as you can see, it's a simple sense of what looks like a ball course in a football field from a linear perspective.
now, you may have noticed that there are some people who are wondering: the rest of the team.
we have a video about this gift from the university of washington.
main middle player: come on, rats! rats.
eight blue! eight blue! come on!
ah!
chris anderson: again this makes you slightly closer to what it looks like to be in the stadium, but this isn't even close to being in my local football role.
they want that experience.
they want to be in the stadium.
they want to be my favorite player, and they've already talked to me through youtube, through twitter, and they're like, "can this apply to the main middle player
do you call me the back player
we want that experience. "
well, once we get that experience with google's google, how can we get a lot more
how do we step next
well, i'm going to take that step through something called the titanic, and i'm sure many of you will.
and as it turns out to separate through the himalayas from the most extraordinary virtual reality devices ever invented, this isn't the most extraordinary thing.
i'm going to show you that this isn't a fake match in this video.
man: ah! ah!
no! no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh my gosh!
ca: so this is a man's experience on death train who's afraid of his life.
so you think what would it be like to try this out when we showed him a video clip of his camera going up across the line of guns and guns that were powerful before he ran out of touch the ground
so you think how would it be like to try this out when he'd be the priest on the stadium, and he'd put together the ball behind the network, or he'd send the ball back
how do you think that would be an experiment like this when you zoom down below a mountain at over 70 miles an hour and you see an artist hills
i think the sales of her old clothing can rise.
but this isn't yet flat reality.
this is just virtual reality.
how do we switch to flat reality
we're going to transform our own physical reality when my future is looking at this information and flow from people's desire to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our teams better
how do we use this to win games "
because teams always use technology to win games.
they like to win; that's money.
so a brief historical glimpse of technology in my local football role.
in ohio, he took a seat for his main medium so he could call games faster.
they won al qaeda this year.
the other difference is <UNK>.
watch the game more people because it's gotten more attractive.
it was faster.
in 1994, he put my local soccer turn into two major middle players and then defense later.
the games saw more people because they were faster.
they were even more excited.
in your lab, imagine you're a player coming back into the crowd and your game is shown right in front of your face with completely transparent plastic bottles that we're already wearing right now.
no more anxiety about forget games.
no more anxiety about carrying a game revolution in order.
just go out and interact.
and he wants my age to be so excited because the tasks that are missing cause the game loss of the game to be lost as a game loss.
your games will fail to fall away from acting as coach.
they don't want to.
but its flat reality isn't just a motor game forum.
flat reality is also a way to get all that data and use it in real time to improve how you play your game.
how could that be
well, it's a very simple camera in every corner of the stadium that comes down and gives you a vision from the top of everybody down there.
you also have information from the helmet sensors that are being done right now.
they take all that information, and they make it flow and flow.
the good difference makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and their models produce extra information.
that determines good difference.
it's bad.
exploring data isn't for the <UNK> anymore.
she might also be the
what would that look like in the stadium
well, imagine you're the main middle player.
i took my leg and then came back.
the stadium has been exploring for freedom; suddenly, a bright flash on the left side of your condoms is learning to find out that your invisible hand is running around with your arms.
in a normal case, you won't see it but its entire reality system teaches us to do it.
you step into the target.
so here's another clip of a free future.
you pass a ball, but you turn it around in the back of the fold.
the ball is away from its course.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on its way down, she sees a piece of grass that light up and knows that it has to do.
he goes, he goes, he goes around the ball, he goes, he goes on earth.
the crowd is moving excited, and i'm going to share it with him every step along the way, watching from every perspective.
now this is something that will create huge profits in the game.
it will make such a huge amount of people watching, because people want this experience.
they want to be in the stadium.
they want to be their favorite song.
its flat reality will be part of sports, because it's too profitable.
but the question i'm going to ask you is is this all we can use our own space reality
will we use them only as a tool, as an instrument
because i think we can use better ground reality.
i'm sure we're able to use a flat reality as a path to promote sensory communication through human beings themselves, through literally, through someone who looks like what it looks like to take someone else's place.
we know what this technology is worth with sports.
it's worth the revenue of billions of dollars a year.
but what is the value of this technology that was so valuable in a classroom trying to show how much damage their actions were made from the perspective of the victim
what is the value of this technology that is so valuable or russian trying to show up to the world how does it be living under time
what is the value of this technology to our students, or to us, or to give birth to two daughters who are trying to inspire our children to think about space and science rather than annual number of reports, and <UNK>
ladies and gentlemen, the perfect reality is coming.
the questions we ask, the questions we do, the challenges we face, as usual, come back to us.
thank you.
she recently graduated from california streets after a 23 year-old service.
most of that time i've been spending in new york county, which includes the golden gate bridge.
the bridge is a creative building, known at the level of the world as the aesthetic texture of san francisco, and into the pacific, inspired by inspiration.
unfortunately, he's also the factor of a split mine, where he's one of the most extreme areas of the world trying to fill him up.
he opened up the golden gate in 1983.
joseph allen, president of engineers, responsible for building a bridge called "the bridge is <UNK>.
suicide from the bridge is not practical and not possible. "
but when i open more than 800 people <UNK> on that bridge.
some believe that traveling between my orchestra will lead to another distance, this bridge carrying an idea of what it's like to fall off its soul and get water down and fill your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when the bridge uses suicide structure.
four or five seconds later, the body hits the water at a speed of about 75 miles an hour.
that shock of bone disorder, which is then passed away by the biological organs.
lots of people die of collision.
those who don't die are generally understood in a row without force, and then they fall down.
i don't think those who choose this way of suicide understand how awful death is that way.
this is our gift.
except around ground ground, there are 32 inches of wire and bridge.
here many of these people stand before they kill themselves.
and from my experience i can say that someone if he gets to that conclusion, and in the worst moments of his life, it's very difficult to remember him.
i took this general picture of a date while this young woman was talking to the officer and she looked at her life.
and i can tell you happy that we managed successfully that day to get rid of the fence.
when i started working on the bridge, we weren't formal training.
we had to meet these calls.
it wasn't just bad for those who were trying to commit suicide, but also for themselves.
it's been a long way since then.
now, the veterans' officers are training new officers.
this is neil williams.
i met neil on june 22 of last year when she received a call as if she tried to get raped sitting in the middle of the bridge.
i responded to her, and when she arrived, i watched.
neil was 32 years old and he came off from new jersey.
in fact, he came here twice before this time from new jersey to try to suicide off this bridge.
after about an hour of talking to neil, he asked if we knew the story of the phoenix box.
if you remember in the greek myth, you would call him y, send him to earth with a box, and then tell her, "never open your box."
but one day, curiosity was able to be curious from neil, and he invited him to open the box.
and i've been buried by two cultures, and all sorts of evil against humans.
the only good in that box was hope.
and then <UNK> asked him, "what happens if you open up the box and there was no hope"
silence in a moment, and it drives me right, and then it's gone.
this young man, smart from new jersey, is just older than suicide.
he spoke with his parents that night, and i think while i talked to them, i didn't look like i had worked all i could, because the next day, my family was calling me.
<UNK> <UNK> asked him to do that.
the immediate damage and the impact of many people affects many people.
i'm going to ask you this question: what would you do if someone who was a parent and who loved you trying to commit suicide
what would you say
how would you know what would you say
by my experience, it's not just talking; it's going to turn off.
listen to understanding them.
don't hurt you. don't be confused; don't tell that person you feel it, because you probably don't feel it.
just to get there, it might be the turning point they need.
if you feel like someone who thinks <UNK>, i don't want you to face them and ask them about it.
one way to ask this question is: "other people in similar circumstances think about ending their lives; have you ever come up with such ideas"
facing someone right away could save his life and be a turning point for him.
some other signals you can see: despair, belief that life will never get better; disability, belief that there is nothing you can do about it; remove social life; loss of desire in life.
i had this talk a few days ago, after i got an email from a lady who wanted to read her message to you.
her son lost her son on january 19 this year, and she gave me this mail just a few days ago, and after she left me i read you.
"hi, kevin! i expect you're at ted right now.
there must be an amazing experience.
i think i'm supposed to walk on the bridge the weekend.
so i wanted to leave you with a note.
i'd like to tell people my word to sing and tell them their parents who tell their parents, etc.
i'm still missing some things, but i started to realize those moments that mike won't come home.
mike was driving his car from san francisco to san francisco watching his san francisco team game with his father at 19 of january.
but it didn't last forever.
she called his father and her father away from his lost that night.
and the next morning, my daughter came home to see that mike's car was standing near the bridge.
and he noticed him see what was jumping from the bridge at 1: 58 o'clock last night.
thank you so much for supporting those who were just for a long time very vulnerable to themselves.
who of us didn't feel vulnerable without suffering from mental illness
it's very difficult to eliminate.
i'm going to ask you guys my question.
the bridge of the golden gate, he was supposed to be a beautiful cross, not a grave.
my wishes to you so much this week, i'll give you. "
i can't imagine her being able to walk over the bridge and run on the road that her son took away that day, and she only hated her life.
i want to introduce you to a man who describes hope and courage.
on march 11, 2005, he called the radio call to the radio as likely as to try to suicide off the stairs near the north tower.
i drove down my bike down the subway, and i noticed that guy, kevin anderson, standing on top of the staircase.
when he saw me, he pulled me straight off the pedestrian barrier, and stood on that little tube that would turn him onto the tower.
and for the next hour and a half, listen to kevin and he talks about his friends.
kevin decided that day he would return that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, he woke up.
"this is new start; this is new life."
but i asked him, "what was it that made you come back and give life and hope for another chance"
you know what he said to me
he said, "you hear me.
they're leaving me talking, and they're just listening to me. "
shortly after that incident, i received a message from kevin, and here's the message with me now, and i'd like to read it to you.
"dear mr. teszler, nothing will tell you what happened at 11 o'clock in march, but you're one of the reasons kevin's survival is with us now.
and i was totally surprised that kevin was a fan of mine.
i was diagnosed with mental illness now regularly.
kevin told me when he was six months old, and i didn't know at all as a naked smell, but thank god, we know that now.
kevin loved me as he said.
we truly miss god to being you.
and the city will take you and the city will share it with you. "
at the bottom of the message i wrote, "table, when i visited san francisco hospital that night, they had written your name on being the patient.
i swear i really wanted to fix that mistake. "
today, kevin has become an intimate and active organ in society.
he speaks frankly about the events of that day and is hoping that his story is inspired by others.
suicide isn't just something i experienced during my work.
it's personal.
my grandfather was older at suicide itself.
even though that act ended its own conclusion, but it gave us an opportunity to recognize.
this is what suicide does.
most of their deaths, or those who think of suicide, don't kill someone else.
they just want to end their own pain.
usually, it's done three ways: sleep, drugs or alcohol or death.
during my work, i responded and engaged in hundreds of calls of suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i was directly responsible for have only lost two conditions, but many cases are.
two of them were neil.
and i had a man talking to him about an hour later.
and as i talk with him, i shake my hand three times.
in that last, he looked at me and said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
and then he puts it on.
awful, absolutely awful.
i want to tell you too, that the vast majority of the people we meet on that bridge don't provide suicide.
in addition, those few who <UNK> on the bridge and lived and were able to talk about their experience, those one or two percent, most of them said that, at the moment when they were given that barrier they knew they had committed mistakes and wanted to live again.
what i'm saying to people is, the bridge doesn't only reach san francisco but it gets people together too.
that connection or bridge that we're fighting is something that each of us should fight for.
suicide can be preventable.
there's help; there's hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different from who you are, but, inside you, you know who you are, and that question is burning in you: how does it become
maybe i'm going to be surprised by that, but i'm not a fan, i'm not an at all.
so when i became a fashion model, i felt like i finally had the dream i had imagined since i was a child.
my external personality corresponds to my inner truth with my self.
for many complicated reasons, i'll come to her later, when i look at this picture, then i felt like i made that. i got that. i got you.
but over october, i realized i was still at first.
and as a result, we've been put inside boxes before our families, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even our bodies themselves.
some people have the courage to break that, and not accept the limits that they are due to their skin color or because of their differences around them.
these people are the source of constant threat to the status quo, which is now accepted.
in my case, over the last nine years, some of my neighbors, some of my friends and colleagues and even my colleagues, haven't talked about my history.
i think, obviously, this is what's called an idiot.
and this is secret.
i was recorded at birth as a boy based on the outside shape of his baby.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, looking around the house, i was always putting a shirt on my head.
my mother was like, "how can you wear that shirt on your head all the time"
i was saying, "mama, this is my hair; i'm a girl."
i knew how to define self-assembly.
sex, it was still an absolute fact; it's not possible for change, but we now know it's much more flexible, flexible.
because of my success, i didn't have the courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world deals with us. which we hope to live freely.
every day, i'm so grateful that i'm a woman.
i've got a mother and a father and a family who has accepted me as i want to be.
many aren't lucky.
there's an old habit in asian culture celebrating a mystery about sex.
there's a buddhist buddhist gods.
there's a gods, a migration champion.
and that's when i was eight, i was at a celebration in the philippines with those secrets.
i was at the front of the theater, and i remember, this beautiful lady came out in front of me specifically, and i remember that moment something inside of me saying, "this is what i want to do.
so when i was 15, i still dress up a boy, i met a lady named t.
she was the director of the agency of an sexually aggressive show.
that night she asked me, "how didn't you bring me into beautiful furniture"
i thought if i wanted to do that, i'd like to do it with recording clothes and clothes, and that night, i won in swimming clothes and i'd run the second center in the competition between 40 and 40 <UNK>.
that moment changed my life.
suddenly, i was introduced to the beauty competition of the world.
and it's not supposed to be the first profession to be the queen of beauty that we are capable of, but i will accept opportunity.
so from 15 years to 17, i shared most of those dishes until i shared a competition that was set up in the diameter truck, literally -- or again, a competition that was happening next to a rice transplant, and when it rain -- and in the philippines it's a lot of rain -- which has to transport the competition within somebody's
i've worked with good strangers, especially when we travel to distant areas in the philippines.
but most importantly, i met some of my best friends from that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said that he had been approved to report access to america, which means that i can move to america.
i fought that.
i told my mother, "mama, i'm so cool.
here with my friends, i love traveling; i'll leave the queen of beauty. "
but two weeks later, she called up and said, "do you know that in america you can change your name and your name"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also said to me to put a double e on my name.
she also had me when she had done surgery in thailand in 19.
that's interesting, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand, their performance is better and better than ever at high safety levels in those surgeries.
then in the united states, you have to get surgery before you change the name and sex that's recorded.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember having a driver's license in california who was my name and i called my sex prize "female."
that was a powerful moment.
for some people, personal identity is leadership or even having alcohol, for me, it was like having life, to feel free.
and all of a sudden, my fear started to hurt me.
i felt i could achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a model.
many aren't happy enough.
i think it's because of this woman whose name she has been called "lean in."
she's from new york, and she's a young lady who was living on her condition, but hatred is surrounded by her life.
and for most of my community, this is really our life.
our suicide rate is higher than average per year.
in november 20, we organize a global pause against our left day.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who stand and stand against injustice.
this is paul johnson and johnson.
today, this particular moment, this is my moment of real time.
i couldn't live my truth for myself alone.
i'd like to give better to help others live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, naked, even someday, there's no need to be killed by november.
my inner truth made me accept my self.
can you
thank you very much.
thank you very much. thank you very much. think about how much it is: two <UNK>, a quick question for you.
i wonder what you would say, especially for parents, but more <UNK>, friends, family, for anyone who finds themselves in face with a child or someone who's facing or who's being skeptical about the sex that's been defined by him, what can you say to the family of that person to help them become better, and kind of
<UNK>: of course, okay. first of all, i'm very lucky.
my support system, especially with my mother's support, and my family itself was very powerful.
i remember every moment i wanted to train a young woman with a young woman, count them, or sometimes when they call me and they say they don't say that. i was raising the phone called my mother, "mama, can you talk to that woman"
sometimes it does work, sometimes it doesn't work. but that's just to identify sex in your neighborhood, right
i mean, we're all born when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start this conversation is start that sometimes our particular sex isn't <UNK> so there must be space for people to recognize, and that conversation that they're supposed to be with parents, and colleagues.
whether we are vulnerable, still at first, compared to how gay movement began.
it's still too much to do.
there should be understanding.
there can be a space to ask and ask questions, and i hope all of you will be my priorities.
tk: thank you very much. that was fantastic.
in many societies, includes parents, usually their children, but i am one of those few who know their children, and i am proud of this thing.
she started her campaign for education and defense of her rights, in 2007, and when she was asked for her efforts in 2011, the national peace prize became very famous for her country.
before all, she was my daughter, but now she was her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at human history, women's story is an unfair story, inequality, violence and abuse.
as you can see, in developing societies from the beginning, when they're born, their birth doesn't celebrate.
she is welcome, whether her mother or her father.
your neighbors come to your mother's neighbors; they don't like your mother.
mother would be very uncomfortable with my promise.
when a first girl is born, her first daughter, mother is very sad.
when she is born her second daughter, her mother's daughter, and when she is expected to be born a male, but she is born a third girl, her mother feels guilty as though she is a daughter.
not only does mother suffer, but also her girl, her new child, when she grows, her suffering is too.
at five years old, when you have to be at school, the girl stays home while the males go to school.
even 12 years old, in some way, lives a good life.
she can have fun.
you can play with her friends on the streets, and you can move around on the streets like a dome.
but when she becomes a teenager, when she gets into her 13 year-old brother, she'll be able to leave the house without facilities.
she's going to be between four walls of her house.
it's not a free person anymore.
you become what's called the privilege of father, her parents, her family, and if you rise above that honor, you get killed.
interestingly enough, the honor code for its mate doesn't just affect girl life, but it also affects male life in her family.
i know a family made up of seven sisters and one brother, and that one brother, fled to the gulf countries, to make the living for his seven brothers and sisters and sisters, because he thought he would be happy if she learned her seven skill brothers and sisters from home to be committed to living for their families.
this brother, remember the joy of his life and his sisters for what's called privilege.
and there's another habit in countries called "lean in."
"good girl" should be very, very quiet and very difficult.
this is the standard.
good girl should be very quiet.
they should be silent, they should be inspired by father's decisions, their father's most of them, even if they don't.
if she's married to a man who doesn't like her or who's a old man, she has to accept that, because she doesn't want to look at her as "don't like her."
if you're married at a very young age, you have to accept it.
otherwise they wouldn't be dead.
and what happens eventually
in words like two girls, she's wearing them, she's put them in bed and then she gives me more kids and girls.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, she will know the same lesson as her father, the same lesson as honor and honor.
and this ring goes on and on.
ladies and gentlemen, millions of women have put together if we think differently if women and men think differently, if women and men in societies like women in developed countries, if they can take some family habits and community habits, if they can remove the racism laws of systems in their countries, which are associated with basic human rights for women.
brothers and sisters, when i was born to my sisters, and for the first time, believe me, i don't like new babies, i'll be honest with you, but when i looked in her eyes believe me, i got a big honor.
before i was born long before, i thought to her parents, and i was fascinated by the heroes of afghanistan.
her name was my daughter, my daughter named after him.
a few days after i was born and born, my daughter came up with my uncle's son -- who was an accident -- came home to bring back family tree, family tree, looked at the tree, and saw that she was tracking the history of 300 years of our ancestors.
but they were all men, so i picked up my pen, i added my pen, and i wrote "picked up."
and when i grew up, she became four and a half years old, and she grew up at my school.
now you might ask me why would i mention i was at school
i should mention this thing.
maybe this thing is a concept that's created in canada, and in america and in many developed countries but in poor countries, in communities of rural communities, this thing is an important event for a girl's life.
go to school means knowing its identity and its name.
the acceptance of school means that she has entered the dream world and a world where she can discover her potential as her future life.
i have five sisters; none of them could get to school, but you're going to be surprised; it's two weeks old; when i was going to fill up my canadian bank address, when i was filled with my family class of demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason why this is because i've never seen anything in my life written in an document.
this was why he invited me to appreciate my daughter.
the thing my father couldn't give him to give him any daughters, i thought he should change it.
i've always been able to ensure that my daughter has given me.
i wanted her to sit with me when my friends came.
i used to have to go with me to many meetings.
and all of these good values, which are conditions to force your personality.
she didn't just have it. she just missed her.
i grew up all these great values for my school students and boys alike.
i used education as a way to recover.
i knew my parents, i knew my girls from girls; they don't learn a lesson.
my students learned from boys not to learn a lesson called fake privilege.
my dear brothers and sisters, we were looking for extra rights for women and we were fighting to get more, more space for women in society.
but we have a new phenomenon.
it was a killer of human rights specifically for women's rights.
it used to be called "lean."
which means full and full of women's participation in all political and social and social activities.
hundreds of schools and schools.
girls stop going to school.
women were forced to wear <UNK> and they weren't allowed to go into markets.
the musicians, the musicians, the girls and the girls were killed.
millions were suffering, but few people were talking about, and it was the most amazing thing to be surrounded by people like these who kill their rights, and you're talking about rights.
it was really the most exciting thing.
at 10 years old, i stood up to my parents, i stood up for education.
i wrote a note for my blog blog, i fled herself for new york times movies; i talked from every platform i could talk to.
her voice was more powerful.
she has spread a voice from all over the world.
and this was why the taliban were unable to carry on their big deal, in october of 2012, and they ran over their head at close distance.
this day was like the day of judgment for my family and me.
the world turned into a large black hole.
when my daughter was living and dying, i thought to my wife, "did you mind what my daughter had gone to my daughter"
but she suddenly said, "please don't mind yourself.
i stood on the right side.
you've put your life at stake for right, for peace, for education, you've been inspired by your daughter and your daughter.
you both were on the right path and god would be protected. "
these few words meant so much to me, and i haven't asked this question again.
when she was in the hospital, she was very aggressive, and she had this severe foie gras because he had been so aggressive, i was seeing his wife's face, and he was doing something wrong with me.
but my daughter didn't make me believe me one day.
she was saying to us, "i'm fine with my two brothers and sisters and i'm going to stay in my face.
i'll be okay, please don't worry. "
she was her brother and her sister, and she gave her back.
my dear brothers and sisters, they taught us the resilience on top of their grandchildren, i'm happy to share it without being the symbol of child rights and women, is like any 16 year-old girl.
you cry when you don't complete your domestic service.
and i'm very happy about that.
people ask me, what's the special thing about my hometown that made him a bold and very brave, which made him speak and be stable
ask me, don't ask me what i did.
but tell me what i didn't.
i didn't burn its wings; that's it.
thank you very much.
thank you. thank you very much. thank you.
i've had brain surgery 10 years since then, brain surgery has become complete to me.
i'm actually a engineer.
first of all, let me say that i recently joined the google & amp; d group in the ted show and the surgery i'm going to talk about today is work before you join google and on the side of google.
well, it's said, there's a shame disorder when it comes to surgery in the brain.
am i still smart isn't it
if the answer isn't, can you gain intelligence over again
after the neurons are a part of the brain that i have to deal with.
it wasn't part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was a dead part of the material that was turned into the brain center of the brain that controls hormone hormones like major neurons.
right after surgery, i had to decide how many drugs i had to take every day, and that was to stop eating these materials, i would die within hours.
every day, since 10 years, every single day i had to decide the structure and the combination of chemicals, the combination of them, to survive.
he was making a lot of hard decisions.
but fortunately, i'm trying to do it, so i decided i wanted to try and find the best dose because there was no clear reference for it.
i began with an experiment with him and i was worried about how simple change in the mix can make a difference to his own self, my feelings of self, my thinking and the lack of others.
one of the interesting situations: for two months i actually did a standard dose of a man in her 20s who was shocked how my ideas changed.
i was angry all the time, and i think sex is constantly, and i'm also smarter than ever, but also -- -- -- -- -- and of course over years i met some kind of young people as well, or slightly less <UNK> than that thinking.
my case was extreme.
but what i thought was, i wasn't trying to be honest.
i was actually trying to be, with some feeling of loss of safety, to solve a problem with me, but that didn't work.
so i couldn't possibly say that.
i've changed the dose.
but, that experience, i think it gave me an estimate for men and why they might happen to them and also share them with men that have become better since then.
what i've been trying to do is to replicate my hormones and my neurons to try to restore my missing intelligence after disease and my thoughts of creativity and ideas.
and i often think through images, and even when i was interested in getting these mental images that i used in elementary models, if you will, with your experience, different ideas of size, and unexpected experiences.
this kind of thinking isn't new.
the philosophers are like mcdonald's & amp; g; they saw it the same way.
they all thought mental and ideas were the same thing.
there's a little bit more of a contrast to that right now, and a lot of arguments about the work of the mind, but to me it's simple: mental images, for the majority of us are essential to creative thinking and creative thinking.
so after several years. i did balance myself and i have lots of living mental images with a large level of convincing and analyzing myself a lot of that.
so i'm working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to a computer screen faster
can you imagine, if i could, a film writer that can only be used as a musician before the world
or can a musician come out of his brain
these are amazing possibilities for the poets who were inspired by their ideas at the speed of light.
and the fact is, despite the obstacles to doing this is to increase the perception of brain systems.
so let me introduce you to why i think we're sort of close to that with two of two very best neurons.
they're both using functional mri technology to photograph the brain, and this is a picture of the eye from his colleague and his colleagues at harvard university.
on my left column shows a picture of someone who's taken me into a picture.
the middle bar shows the same brain scan, and the same person sees the same picture.
on the right there has come together with middle and left and right, and it shows that the difference is hardly there.
and it's done on many people. with many different images, with the same end result.
the difference between seeing a picture and imagining the same image, there's hardly any difference.
follow, let me talk to you about another experiment, which is from the north valley lab at california university.
they were able to activate brain waves and turn them into a visual field that we can recognize.
and let me introduce you to this.
in this experiment, people have been shown hundreds of hours of video from a website while doing brain activity to create a bigger library than brain reactions to groups of videos.
then a new film is presented with new images, new ones, different animals in it, and during that it's been scanning activity again.
the computer, only uses survey data, and allows that brain activity to display image activity to actually show people how to watch.
on the right-hand side, you see computer analysis, on the left side, the real video.
the result is interesting and exciting.
we're so close to doing that.
we just need precision improvement.
now remember when you see an image versus imagine the same image, that gives the same survey of the brain.
this has been done with better precision to scan the brain right now, and the speed of these nodes has actually evolved thousands of times over the last few years.
so we need better precision to get a deeper glimpse.
how do we do that
there are many techniques for this.
one of them is breaking away attacks that are left behind.
i'm not in favor of that.
there are lots of imaging techniques that have been tested, some of which have been offered by our own mri, but based on current mri, first of all, we need to ask: are this the end of this technology
the conventional wisdom says that the price to get a higher frequency is greater than the size, but through just the size of two times larger, it provides some extra improvement in a certain way, not a 100,000 times what we want.
i'll give you an idea instead of a bigger magnet, to make a better magnet.
there are many technologies that are doing this in nanotechnology when they're applied in the magnet industry that are spreading new types of potatoes, and in that technology, we can get very detailed and clear magnetic fields all over the brain parts, and with that, we can have three-dimensional patterns and patterns that are <UNK> on very precisely patterns, as shown here
we can create more complicated structures that do something very simple with breathing.
so why is this important
many efforts to use mri over the years when the industry has gone up to larger sizes, larger sizes, right
and yet many improvements in visual resolution are really good enough to use smart solutions to analyze analysis in radio frequencies that are used in mri systems.
also, instead of a parallel magnet, we use specific patterns of patterns as well as physical waves of waves.
and therefore, i combine the cables with wireless radio waves that can dramatically increase the information we can extract from one survey.
and in addition, we can half everything we learned about brain structure and memory to get improvement by 1,000 times what we need.
and with functional mri technology, we could measure not just blood flow and blood flow, but measure the hormones of the neurons that were already talked about, and also maybe direct neural activity, which is dream.
a market that we can move our ideas into digital media.
can you imagine that we can go beyond language and communicate directly through human ideas
what can we do then
and also how can we learn to deal with human ideas that haven't been generated
you think the internet is big.
there are huge barriers.
it may be an unfair way to explain our ideas and our communication skills.
so i'm going to try to do this same tool that might lead to a cure for alzheimer's and other diseases similar.
we have enough choices and enough choices to open up the door.
some look, pick up years will that happen in 10 years
it's hard to imagine you need longer.
we need to learn how to do this step together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about coming out, not as typical as hearing it, not about sexuality.
i think we all have secrets.
it might be your argument to tell someone you love for the first time or tell someone you're pregnant or tell someone you're having cancer or start any other difficult conversation we might go through during our lifetime.
every talk about secret, which is a hard talk, and even though our intelligence may vary a lot, but an experience of living and freedom from our own is a global experience.
it's scary to remember, but it should be done.
a few years ago, i was working at south carolina's city cafe, which is a local restaurant in town, and while i was working, i was going through a very difficult struggle for girl mortality: i'd run out of quote from "i'm a dvd de j."
and depending on my friend's pants' <UNK> 'and how recently i flew my head, the question often spread from me, usually by a little kid: "are you a boy or a girl"
there would be embarrassing silence on the table.
my jaw <UNK> slightly more <UNK> i carry a coffee pot with a little bit more.
the father is moving his paper and his smile safely and the mother fires looking at her baby and her brother.
but i don't say anything, and i stay inside.
i got to a point where every time i walked into a table where a child was three and 10 years old, i was willing to fight.
this is a terrible feeling.
so i promised myself, next time i would say something.
i'm going to go into that hard discussion.
so within weeks, that happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
familiar silence, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all the women's studies at this table; i have a quote from my house as a teacher.
i've got a quote by beethoven.
i've even had a few clips from "lean in" and out.
so i took a deep breath and looked down and from staring at me is a four year-old girl in a pink dress, not a challenge for the feminist dress, just a child who had a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another deep breath, sat down next to it, and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of embarrassing.
my hair's a little hair like a boy, she's wearing a boy's clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear a pink dress, and sometimes you want to wear your comfortable clothes
well, i'm that kind of girl who gets more happy sleep clothes. "
she looked at me carefully, without any difficulty remembering, and she said, "my favorite sleep is ultraviolet with fish.
can i get a pie, please "
and so it is. just, "oh, well, you're a girl.
what about that pie "
it was the easiest hard conversation i ever had.
and why because the pie girl and i, we were both real with each other.
so like many of us, i lived inside a couple of tanks in my life, and yes, most of the time, it happened to be a rainbow.
but inside, in darkness, you cannot say what color these walls are.
you only knew what she felt to live in a closet.
so really, my clothes aren't different than you or you or you.
sure enough, i'm going to give you 100 reasons why my experience was harder than your experience, but here's where the horse comes from: a difficult word isn't relatively difficult.
difficulty is hard.
who can tell me that someone else has announced that you've announced their argument is much harder than telling someone you've just given up
who can tell me that your story is harder than telling your five year-old child than you're going to divorce
there's nothing harder; it's just hard.
we need to stop our problems with other problems in order to reduce ourselves or our burden on our problems and to recognize the fact that we all suffer from difficulty.
at some point in our lives, we all live inside the tanks, which we might feel safe, or at least safer than behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter anything that's made out of anything that's made up for me, the closet isn't a place for living a human being.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
for me, i had two horses and a horse suit, and i would wear shoes and shoes high.
i wasn't ready to stay engaged with any fourth child coming into the cafe.
i was frozen by fear, and i was standing at the dark corner of the black hole holding that sex bomb, and any movement was the most compelling thing i ever did.
my family and friends and friends -- i spent my entire life trying to hide and not be innocent, but now i turn things upside down right.
i've been drowning pages of scenario that long enough of its impact and a lot of time, so if you don't get away with that bomb, you're going to be spending you.
one of the most alive memories i gave bombs was at my sister's marriage party.
this was the first time i had big numbers to know that i was gay, and during doing the credit thing, in the black equivalent of the high school, i was walking around the tables and then i stopped my father's friends who were sitting on her, people i was worried about.
shortly after my talk, one woman woke up and said, "i love sebastian!"
then i started a war compared to orgasm.
"oh, have you sent me to think of design before"
"well, yes, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we haven't been there before but we heard it's amazing."
"oh, do you know've made up my hair
he's a really good guy who never talked about his girlfriend. "
"oh, what's your favorite television program
so our favorite program my favorite one: will we save you.
do you know who we love jack.
jack is our favorite. "
and then one woman, confused but wanted her to show up to support her, and i noticed she was standing in my class, at the end of her name she said, "well sometimes my husband is wearing purple."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody had been throwing their shoes.
i can go back to my friend and to my christian table and to honor him, and i'll be able to break her down through the sex fields that we brought with me, or i can trust them and notice that maybe that was the hardest thing they did, that i would start to play with that debate was coming out of their closed
sure enough, it was so easy to point out their feelings of protected.
they're much more difficult to find out about the fact that they were trying.
what would you recommend someone who didn't try
if you're trying to inspire someone, you must be ready for your attention.
so sharp conversations are still not my strength point.
ask anyone to ask me.
but i'm getting better, and following what i like to call a "girl three principles."
now, please look at it through somebody's perspective like me, but do you know what it takes to come out basically the same thing.
number number one: be happy.
take off the out. be yourself.
the kid at the cafe didn't carry ever, but i was ready for a fight.
if you want someone to be honest with you, he needs to know that you're also complaining.
number two: be obvious; just keep them up. fill them up.
if i'm gay, i agree with him.
if you told your parents that maybe you might be surprised, they would have hope to change that.
they don't make them feel wrong.
and number three, and most importantly -- don't follow me.
you tell your vote.
i'm not sure at all.
some of them can hurt them along the way, so i'm sorry about yours, but don't ever stop you from your truth.
indeed, some might be surprised by you, but that's your trick, you don't.
these are your expectations around you, not your expectations.
that's their story, not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you want to write.
so next time you find yourself in the closet with the black leg, i know we've all gone through it before.
you may feel very lonely, but you're not.
we know it's hard but we're here, no matter what the walls are made from, because i guarantee you there are others staring through keys and looking at the courage and looking at the door, so be that person and showed up to the world that we're older than their own and that the chair isn't really where someone is going
thank you. thank you.
intelligence -- what is it
if we look at the evolution of perspective into intelligence, one of the first examples was this famous quote by the famous quote by the quote that he said: "the question about whether the machine can think very closely about whether a cart can swim."
now, as a writer, when he wrote this, he meant him as an author of computer scientists, such as alan lee.
however, if you look back and think about what is the most extraordinary material that we've been able to build artificial machines that swim and flying machines, you find that only by understanding physical mechanisms in swimming and flying, we can build these machines.
and so many years ago, i started a program to try to understand the basic physical mechanisms that are in intelligence.
let's step back.
let's start with an intellectual experiment.
imagine you're an alien that doesn't know anything about biology on earth or neuroscience on earth or intelligence on earth, but you have wonderful telescopes that you can see earth, and you have a very long life, so you can see earth over millions, but billions of years.
and i saw a really strange effect.
i've seen, during its exploration, if the earth is constantly beaten up until some point, and this at some point, it points almost like an asteroid, 2000 after birth, the asteroids that hit the earth which are supposed to vary differently or have gone extinct before it broke out on earth.
now of course, earth's worth, we know why we might be trying to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent collision.
but if you're an alien that doesn't know any of this, and you don't have any concept of climate intelligence, you're forced to create a physical theory that explains how, until a certain point in time, the asteroids that plenty a planet stopped doing it.
so i'm saying this is the same question for understanding physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program that i've been looking at a few years ago, i looked at a variety of subjects in science, and in many areas, which i thought was, i think, an underlying mechanism, single intelligence.
in cosmology, for example, there have been many different topics that tell us that our universe seems to be highly organized in an accurate way of developing intelligence, and especially, to develop cosmic conditions which increase the diversity of potential time.
in games, for example, in the toy game -- everybody mentioned in 1997 when we beat the deep blue that anyone made in chess -- a few people realize that in almost 10 years ago, in a game called a much more challenging game because she has a much more challenging factor, also started playing computer games.
these are technologies that are trying to increase future choices as much as possible during play.
ultimately, in motor planning, there are many new technologies that have tried to harness robots' capabilities to increase the freedom of future behavior to the highest frontier for complex tasks.
and so, taking all these topics and looking at each other, i wondered, a few years ago, would there be an underlying technology for intelligence that we could take away from all these different topics
is there any single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yes. [t & amp; t] that you see is probably the closest for an order to an e fahrenheit for intelligence i've seen in my life.
so what you're seeing here is an argument that intelligence is forced by, t, which is working on increasing freedom of future action.
they're working on increasing freedom of future behavior to higher borders, or keeping choices available, using some t's power, with future time diversity possible, agency, even future time horizon.
in short, intelligence doesn't like to hurt you.
intelligence loves to increase the freedom of future behavior to the far borders and keep open choices.
and so, having this single equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
what's their potential for critics
does human intelligence predict
does artificial intelligence predict
so i'm going to show you a video now which, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this single equation.
narrator: i proposed modern research in cosmology that the universes that produce more chaos, or & amp; t, during their lifetime must tend to be more intelligent conditions than there are intelligent organisms.
but what if this cosmic relationship is a temporary relationship between two drugs and intelligence suggests a deeper relationship
what if behavioral behavior doesn't just relate to producing long-term trends, but actually is directly emerging from them
to discover this, we've developed a software engine called mount d, designed to increase long-term production for any system that finds itself.
amazingly, our intelligence tests were able to succeed in multiple animal intelligence tests, in human games, even in making stock money, all without giving them instructions to do it.
these are just some examples of their evidence.
just as a person standing straight without falling, here you see two strands of stick using a cart.
this behavior is particularly extraordinary because we've never given a target.
he decided alone to stick the stick.
this ability to balance will have applications in human robots and technology for human help.
just as animals use things as tools to get access to narrow spaces, here we see two dimensions, again as individual components, was able to move a big disk that represents an animal to another place to make a small disk, which represents a tool, up into a small space where there's a third disk and a third disk from its original
this tool uses its ability to have applications in industry and smart agriculture.
also, just like some other animals capable of collaboration to pull the rope off at the same time for food, here we see that our bodies can achieve a typical version of that task.
this ability to cooperate interesting applications for economic planning and many other areas.
your applications have vast applications in many fields.
for example, here we're seeing successfully playing a thin game against itself, and he's showing his ability to play.
here we see new connections going on on a social network where friends will constantly connect with their friends and keep successfully connected to the network.
this ability to mimic applications also in healthcare, energy, intelligence.
here we see two ships running the lanes of a ship, successfully discovering and uses the palace and grow its journey from the atlantic ocean into the pacific ocean.
using the same model, if you will, it has a vast use of existing problems in defense, of rehabilitation and mobility.
finally, here we see two secrets that are constantly discovering and running a cheap buy plan, selling high price on the stock market for reality, and increase the property that's run successfully.
this ability to organize risk will have vast applications in economics and insurance.
alex <UNK>: so what you've just seen is that a bunch of smart cognitive behaviors like human beings with tools and walking through their bodies and social cooperation are all following one equation, which is creating a system that has been able to increase their freedom in their future behavior into the far borders.
now, there's a deep irony here.
going back to the beginning was always the notion that if we develop robots, there will be a mechanical revolution.
the mechanisms will disappear against us.
one of the big consequences of this work is that perhaps throughout all these decades, we had the reverse concept of the mechanical revolution.
it's not that machines are getting smart at first and then they're going to clean up bone and try to control the world.
it's exactly the opposite, that the tendency to control all future times is a more fundamental principle than intelligence, that the aspects of general intelligence can actually come directly from control, rather than the other way around.
another important point is looking for purpose.
i'm often asked, how can you explain the ability to find goals in this framework
and the answer is, the ability to look for goals can be explained directly from this other logic: as you pass through a tunnel, a bottle in your future space, in order to achieve many other goals later, or as you invest in money, reduce your emissions in the short term in order to increase your wealth over the long term,
long-term motivation for increasing freedom of your future behavior.
and finally, richard feynman, a known physicist, wrote once that if human civilization was destroyed and i was able to give one principle only to help them rebuild civilization, that principle must be that everything around us must be made of small elements that attract each other when they're moving away from each other but when they're approaching each other.
my version of this quote is to give our grandchildren to help them build aspects of artificial intelligence or help them understand human intelligence, which is this: intelligence has to look at it as a physical process that tries to increase the freedom of future behavior to the extreme borders and avoid constraints in their future.
thank you very much.