i'm going to talk to you about 30 years from the history of engineering.
this is a very big thing to do in 18 minutes.
it's a complicated topic, so we're going directly into a complex place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i was from new jersey, i was six years old, and i was living there with my father in a city called <UNK>, and this was my bedroom.
at the corner of my room there was a bathroom that shared with my sister.
and between my room and my bedroom, there was a alarm that stayed in the living room.
and there's where everyone would come together to watch tv, so every time i would go from my room to the bathroom, everybody would see me, and every time i walked out and pulled out my teeth, everybody would see me.
i was looking like this.
i was feeling weird, not safe, so i hated that feeling.
i hated that <UNK>, that prayer, i hated that room, and that house.
and that's architecture.
it's over.
that feeling, the emotions that we share, that are the power of architecture, because architecture is not the mathematics of <UNK> it's these crazy, mysterious scenes that are going on.
and it's not surprising that we feel that way, because according to the conservation agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
90 percent of our time is surrounded by engineering.
that's a huge thing.
what it means is that engineering determines who we are in ways we don't actually know.
it makes us think of something, and it can be predictable very easily.
that means when i show you a building like this, i know what they're going to think about: "power and stability and democracy."
and i know you're thinking about this because it's based on the basis of building an organization that has been around for 8,000 cents since the greeks.
that's the trick.
this is the driver that engineers use to create that emotional connection with the forms that plants build.
it's an emotional link that we've used for a long time.
we used it 200 years ago to build banks.
we used it in the 19th century to build art museums.
and in the 20th century in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young soldiers, the poor people, the hard people, the ocean, the risks.
this is very useful because building things is terrifying.
it's expensive, it takes a long time, and it's very complicated.
and who are building these things -- developers and governments -- who are naturally afraid of innovation, and better to use just those forms that you know you're going to be involved with.
so we finally get data like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is a library of <UNK> <UNK> that was finished in 2004 in my hometown, and it had, you know, that circular thing, it has a red axis, and you can guess what it's trying to say through this building: children, values of its history.
but it doesn't have much to do with what libraries are doing today.
that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, it was finished building another library; it looked like this.
in seattle.
the idea of this library is about how we consume media in digital time.
they form a kind of public hiv for the city, a place for their peers to build their views.
so how is it possible that in the same year, in the same country, both sides, both both of their parties, and their parties are completely different
and the answer is that engineering works in a <UNK> principle.
on the first hand, we find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing in the direction of building new technologies, studying new symbols, new solutions to how we live today.
that's that we pay and pay and we pay so that you all check out.
we wear black clothes, and we think we're <UNK>, because eventually we have no other choice.
we've got to turn on the other side and take it back to the symbols that you know you love.
and then you get happy, you feel like a life, and you start testing again and you end the ball back and forth, and we've done this over the last 300 years, and certainly in the last 30 years.
30 years ago, we just came out of the 1970s.
engineers then were busy testing something called cruel architecture.
it has to do with concrete.
you can guess.
little windows, at the scales of two scales.
this is very difficult.
we're getting closer to the 1980s, and we're starting to engage these symbols.
and the bribe paid to the other side.
you take those shapes that you know you love and you break them down.
you add <UNK> and you add <UNK> and you use new materials.
<UNK>.
you can't afford to avoid enough.
you take the english room and you go to most of the have, so it can be a glass of middle ages.
the sizes, the sizes became color and the most <UNK>.
the birds became the size of the columns.
it's grown up to be the size of buildings.
that was our pockets.
but in the 1980s, it's great.
we're all meeting in commercial kitchen and moving all of us to live in the suburbs, and there, in the suburbs, we can be created by amsterdam.
and these are <UNK> they can be french, they can be french, they can be french.
it may have <UNK> <UNK>.
this is the idea of after urbanization.
this is the idea of the symbols.
it's easy, cheap, because instead of building places, we make memories of places.
because i know, and i know all of you know, this is not your fault.
he's <UNK>.
so we're worried, so we start <UNK> to the other side.
at the end of the '80s and early' 90s, we started testing what we called the '70s.
we started giving historical symbols away, and we got to new design technologies that were supported by computers, and we came up with a bunch of new structures, from damage to forms.
this is academic stuff that's been put in place, and it's not completely <UNK> we're largely <UNK>.
usually a unit wins back to the other side.
and then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is the have, like, the now of the now, as opposed to frank <UNK>.
and this building has radically changed the relationship of the world of engineering.
paul really said that the first was one of these big signs when the most common ones made up and fully focused on a building.
the new york times was considered this building to be taken.
swim doubled in <UNK> percent by the end of this building.
all of a sudden, everybody wanted one of these data: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, usa.
everybody wants a similar building, and it's become a <UNK> around.
it's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how can these forms -- the most powerful and traditional form -- how can they be around the world
this happened because the media quickly worked to let us know that these shapes mean culture and swim.
and the emotional reaction to these forms is emotional.
and so did every mayor of the world.
so every mayor knows that if she has these forms, she has culture and swim.
this phenomenon happened with the beginning of the new millennium to some other stars.
and what happened with these few architects with the beginning of the new millennium was starting to impact the whole field of engineering, where digital media began to increase the speed of information.
think about how you consume engineering.
1,000 years ago, you had to walk towards the nearby village to see a building.
the speed of transportation: you can sail in a ship, you can take an airplane, you can be a pilot.
the speed of technology: you can see it in the newspaper, or on tv, at the end, we're all engineers and engineers, and the building spirit of the site has been copied.
engineering is everywhere now, and that means that the speed of communication has finally been followed at the speed of engineering.
because engineering is moving quite quickly.
it doesn't require to think about designing for a long time.
it's built that takes a long time, three or four years, and at that time it would design an engineer, an architect or eight or a hundred other buildings before you knew whether to make a building that was designed four years ago or not.
that's not in the engineering loop that's kind of fine.
so we end up with data like this.
it's not just the cruel architecture movement, it's 20 years old.
20 years ago, we were coming out of information like this because we didn't know how much you hated them.
this won't happen again, i think, because we're living on one edge of the greatest engineering revolutions since the concrete invention of concrete, steel, elevator, and what is a media revolution.
so the point is that when you apply media to the clock, it starts to move faster and faster, until you get to the far side of unless you get to the top side of really, and that really shows the difference between creativity and symbols, between each other, between engineers, among you, with the public.
we can now create symbols that are emotional in real time from something completely new.
let me show you how this works through a project that i just finished recently.
and then we brought in and began to celebrate this building that was broken.
this is a city center called dr. <UNK> effect in new york state.
it's a <UNK>.
we announced a building that was different from all the data that the population came back to, and our client was scared, and our client was scared, and the population was scared, and we took a series of real concepts and put them on facebook and put them on facebook and cut them off, and we let people start doing what they do
but this meant that two years before the building was finished, the building was already part of the community, and when the corridors looked exactly the same as the final product, there wouldn't be two branches.
this building was already part of the community, and then in the first summer of then, when people started painting and sharing social media, it was no longer just building as a building but as a media, because these are not just images of the community, they are the images that you are in this building.
and when they use it to tell you what it is, they become part of the <UNK>, and what they're doing is they're short of the road on our collective memory, and they're creating these emotional symbols for us to understand.
that means that we don't need to be able to think about engineering anymore.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media has not only changed our relationship to each other, but also the relationship between us and the data.
think for a moment about the <UNK> there in <UNK>.
if that building was going to be built today, the first thing they were going to do was go to the internet and find new libraries.
so think of examples of choices, about creativity, and thinking deeper about what the library is.
that's the total.
that's the kind of quantum that you can take with them and take them and take them off, and let's say, there's not one definition of what the library is today.
and let's be part of this.
the experience has a lot to give them freedom to do their choices.
everything is different now.
engineers are no longer killing these mysterious creatures that use hard words and hard words, and they never come back to the service, that the customer who won't kill anything we've never seen before.
engineers listen to you, they fear engineering.
that means that the clock on the back and forth from one way to another, from movement to another, has no meaning.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions for the problems that our society faces.
this is the end of the history of engineering, and this means that tomorrow's data will look very different from today's data.
which means that the public spaces in the ancient city can be unique and active in the way that a modern city works.
what it means is that a church in brooklyn can be a tradition there, not a tradition of our history in a red tradition as we think it should be.
that means robots are going to build our building, because we're finally ready to build the shapes that we're going to create.
it also means that the buildings are connected to the nature of nature, not the other way around.
that means that car times in miami in florida, it can be a place for sports and you can also marry there late at night.
that means that three architects in the east river in new york will dream about half a million dollars of people who came up about their case, no longer even have one customer.
that means that it's never a smaller building than it is to create, and that little institutions are very powerful for the animals that are designed to be designed for the fly.
and that means you shouldn't be nice to be crazy, like this beautiful, ugly building in spain, where the engineers dig a hole, they <UNK> the concrete around it, and when they dry the concrete, they let someone come up and they'll just pull off the lights until this little, <UNK>, <UNK>, <UNK>, <UNK> room that
my father became one of the most magic places to see the clubs.
because it doesn't matter if a cow is from our data house or a robot that he built.
it doesn't matter how to build, what matters what you build.
engineers already know how to build more intelligent and easier green data to use.
we were just going to get them all together.
and finally, it's never been on the other side.
take an engineer, use an engineer, work with us to design better data, better cities, better cities, because high standards.
it doesn't reflect our data, it determines our spaces through the simplest spaces: local libraries, houses in which our children are raised, and they're taken from a bedroom to the bathroom.
thank you.
this is my brother <UNK>.
she just turned six and started walking.
and she walks in that wonderful way of all the children in her first year where they release.
it's absolutely wonderful.
and one of my favorite things right now is to stare at itself in the mirror.
they certainly have to be influenced by the mirror.
and we laugh, we laugh, we kill themselves, those big, bluefin experience.
it's a beautiful thing.
and all her friends seemed to do it, and my mother told me that i was also doing it, and that invited me to think about when i stopped doing it
when suddenly it's not good to look like we look
because obviously we don't like our appearance.
every month, 10,000 people are looking at google "am i ugly"
this is
like a teenager who wants to be crazy and accepted.
it's sunday night.
she's getting ready for school next week.
and she's a little scared and a little scared because although her mother tells her all the time, she's beautiful every day at school, she tells her she's ugly.
and because of the difference between what her mother says and what she said at school she didn't know.
so imagine a video of herself, and we put it on youtube and we ask people, and we ask them to write a comment, "am i beautiful or ugly"
okay, so far, i got 110 comments.
some of the comments are awful, even though they didn't mean to think about it.
this is a normal childhood girl who takes a regular baby like this in the most sensitive emotional times of her life.
thousands of people publish videos like this, most of them are teenage girls who communicate this way.
but what gets them to do that
well teenagers these days are rarely alone.
they love stress to be on the web all the time, they talk, they send messages, they like them.
they comment, they participate, they publish, they never end up. we never have this connection, this continuous, immediate form of reference.
as one mothers told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
simply, there is no privacy.
and the social pressures you line up this tough.
this environment of constant coming up with our children and training them to estimate the value of themselves by the number of their customers and the kind of comments that they're getting.
there is no classroom between life on the web and life out there.
it's hard to distinguish what is real, what is fake.
and it's also hard to distinguish between what is original and what digital is.
what is the important event for everyday events
and where are they looking for inspiration
let's see if you have all these pictures of girls' resources these days.
we're going to set up the imagination, the very imagination, the platforms.
it's so used to <UNK> the facial features, and we've become seen as <UNK>.
and it's about the space between your bodies.
so our approach is to encourage an artificial loss.
these trends are with physical vision that women love in public culture.
it's not hard to figure out what girls compare to themselves.
but boys are not vulnerable.
you see the <UNK> and <UNK> muscles of sports and visitors, but what's the problem with all of this
of course, we want our kids to emerge as individuals, but also a culture of our culture and our culture in order to form them.
it has to spend time and effort on social skills and physical skills.
and school shows that they start to surprise.
six out of 10 girls choose not to do a task because they're not so beautiful.
we're not talking about high school activities, but basic activities like <UNK> individuals, like <UNK> <UNK> in society, about one percent of all teenagers.
and a lot of conversations in class don't share because they don't want to.
attention to their appearance is one out of every five who's lost in school when you're not upset about showing them, let's talk about choices when you think you don't look good.
especially if you think you're not a fan.
and if you give it down, that's a little bit less than your colleagues.
those who don't worry about this, and this is a house in finland and the united states, china, regardless of your actual weight.
more <UNK> we're talking about.
think about your shape, not your real shape.
the lack of trust is reduced to the classroom, and the health is destroyed, when the teenager gets less confident, he's training less, he's doing fruit, vegetables, vegetables.
and we're doing not healthy food.
it leads to eating disorders, and it goes down, and it has the level of self.
it made it even more scary, and i applied it to depression, and all this stuff makes it more likely to drink alcohol and drug abuse.
they've been eating through health and intensive surgery and engaging in sexual practices and causing themselves.
the pursuit of the perfect body is cleaning hospitals.
it costs our governments billions of dollars every year to stop women who give them a hand.
regardless of whether they're already set up to work more quickly to have an interview on the day when we don't feel confident and confident.
let's think about the impact of our economy.
and what is what it is for the doctor to beat us on this allow for all of us to take advantage of the interest.
but how do we do that
talk alone about problems.
it's not enough to solve it.
if we want to make a change, we have to do something.
there are three ways to create change, and the first thing that is as important as trust as that is, we have to teach teenagers.
how to overcome their stress response, how they build their respect for themselves.
it's good to have programs that mean that right now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come right when you realize that a lot of these good programs are good.
we want to get it worse, and that's why we have to make sure that our kids don't receive programs that just leave positive effects.
it leaves an effect that studies have shown that the best quality programs are dealing with basic aspects.
the first is the impact of the family, the friends, the relationships, that we have the impact of the media and the media and the work of the peer valley, how we discuss and compare ourselves to others based on the <UNK>, talking about the appearance, the <UNK>, the <UNK>.
these six key points for anyone who's ever started to teach effectively trust and trust.
education and quality is very important, but this problem requires all of us to be a good role model for women and girls to come up with.
and the challenge of the reality that women show up in our societies.
we don't have to be able to control the efficiency of a piece of hair or the size of a chest or expect to succeed as a male, because it doesn't run its beauty and beauty.
we need to see people not to mention it.
we need to care about the kinds of images that we publish and the reactions that we write in social networks.
we have to build on the people who fight them and business that they do, not look at their shape.
let me ask you when was the last time you accepted a mirror
and ultimately, we have to work together as communities, governments, entrepreneurs to change this culture, and our children are able to appreciate themselves, respect, gender and belonging.
people in the community have to show up and engage people in the world.
and when we do that, then we can create change.
we want to create a world where our children feel free, to be the best thing that a world can be considered to be not what they are, or what they want in life.
think about what all this is going to mean for you in your life.
who would have imagined you
is it your wife
i love you
your daughter
brother and brother
your friend or maybe it's a woman who's away from you now.
what would it mean to be able to activate that critic's ear in it, which would allow him to make a longer object, or a smaller object, or a smaller fold, or an early foot
what would it mean if we beat this with its own potential
today, our cultural obsession is in the way that we get back to progress.
but let's see our kids real.
let's show them that their appearance is only one part of their identity and that we love them and their actions and their actions and their actions.
let's integrate the self into our schools curriculum.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to others.
let's work together as communities of roots to governments to make happy children today, and the makers of change themselves tomorrow.
let's do that.
on the fifth of twitter, in 1990, a man named mr. <UNK> walked into the manhattan hotel and before the rabbi <UNK> <UNK>, a leader of jewish defense.
it was not primarily convicted of death, but when he was spending a prison period on the wrong issues, he was planning with other men to attack tens of sites in new york city, including a agreement and a jewish campus.
fortunately, these surveys have been diagnosed with the fbi agent.
unfortunately, it dropped out of 1993 to the world trade center that didn't surround it.
he was <UNK> at the end of the process.
mr. becomes my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, and he's an egyptian engineer, and he's a gay american mother, who was a primary class teacher, and he was, instead of all in my college, i live a happy childhood.
i'm seven years old, and my family's organic is changing.
when my father came on the side of islam a few people, including the majority of muslims, they wouldn't have to see him.
my own experience says that when people take their time to communicate with each other, it doesn't take effort to realize that in all, we all feel the same things in life.
however, in every religion, in every society, we will find a few people who are most excited and passionate that they feel that they have to use all the important means to help others to live as they do.
a few months before he was arrested, and he told me that on the weekends, some of his friends would go with a shot in long island in order to practice the goals.
and my son said to me the next morning.
we came up with a shot square by <UNK>, which was, without the science of our group, and we were taken by the fbi.
when my turn came to fire, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explain to me how we target the target after 30 yards.
on that day, another bullet hit by the little orange lamp that was above the target and what was surprising to everybody, especially for me, that the whole goal had exploded with play.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and in arabic, he said, "where's his son."
those are ways of that lion.
and they seem to be kind of <UNK> on this comment, but it took a few years to understand exactly what they thought was funny.
they thought they saw me in the same destruction that my dad was capable of doing.
these guys had been convicted eventually for a small truck, filled up with 1,500 pounds of people out on the ground under the ground and <UNK> cars in the north tower of the world trade center, and they were destroyed by six people and then killed more than 1,000 others.
these guys were my role models.
these were my <UNK>, which means "my uncle."
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, this instability of my childhood didn't really give me an opportunity to recognize old friends.
every time i start feeling comfortable with somebody, that period that has to collect our computer for the next city.
and being a new student in the classroom, i was often being vulnerable.
i was hiding her identity from my colleagues in the section to her parents, but it turned out that, as a great white boy and a new class boy in the classroom was pretty ridiculous.
so most of the time, i used to spend my day looking at books and watching tv or playing video games.
and for those reasons, i had no social skills, at least an estimate, and i was in a <UNK> house, i couldn't get ready to face the real world.
i grew up judge by the people based on an unexpected measure, like a race or a religion.
so what did my eyes open
one of my first experiences that was happening in my thinking was during the 2000 presidential election.
during a program i was a member of college at the national council of youth in philadelphia.
my personal group was focused on young violence, and being a <UNK> victim of most of my life, this was a particularly exciting subject.
the group members of his life were different.
one day, at the end of the council, i found out that one of the children i was born was jewish.
now, it took me several days to show these details on the surface, and i realized that there was no natural food between us and the two.
i had never had a jewish friend before, and frankly i felt proud that i could go through a crisis that i'd been missing my entire life to believe it was impossible to overcome.
a big turning point happened when i found our species work in bush.
there, i met people from different beliefs and cultures, and it turns out that that experience was essential in the evolution of my personality.
for most of my life, i was told that sexuality is deep, and therefore, all gay people have a negative effect.
and it happened that, if i had the opportunity to work with some innocent actors in the show there, and soon i found out some of them were just a little smarter, and the less people were being attacked by others.
being a kid i had when i was a kid who created me with a kind of empathy with other people's suffering, and it seemed completely unusual to me that people were beautiful in any other way that i would like to share with them.
and thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a kid with real life experience and treat people.
i don't know what it means to be a species, but i know what it means to me to answer something outside of my brain.
and then dr. sue's program came.
john stewart told me, every night i had to be honest, we thought about myself as an expert to realize that there was nothing to do with one or the bears or the gender of his personality.
he was sometimes a father's character for me when i yesterday needed machines.
inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and a jewish comedy has done a lot to influence and look at the world more than my father did, and i'm no longer a loss to me.
one day, i was talking to my mother about my view of the world has begun to change, and she said something that i always hold in my heart as long as i've ever been.
she looked at me taking care of her attention from trying to avoid enough of his life, and she said, "i'm tired of hate people."
at that moment, i realized the amount of negative energy that would take that hatred inside of you.
iraq's not my real name.
and i changed it, as my family decided to cut away from my parents, my father, and start a new life.
so why did i go out in public and put myself into a potentially dangerous situation
well, it's simple.
i do this in hope that maybe someone will ever be forced to use violence may listen to my story and realize that there's a better way, that if you're vulnerable to that violence, you're not aware of it, you're not going to be surprised.
instead, i chose to use my own experience to fight against terrorism, against prejudice.
i do this for the victims of terrorism and terrorism, and the pain and loss that i tell them about terrorism.
for the victims of terrorism, i'm going to talk out loud against this business and share what my father did.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not a religion in religion or a race of one, and it's not a son to follow his father's linear.
i'm not my father.
thank you. thank you. all of you. thank you, all of you. thank you very much.
now, you have a film set in your head.
it's a wonderful, <UNK> film.
it's being shown in 3d and <UNK> technology of what we're seeing now, but this is just the beginning.
your film has a smell of <UNK> and <UNK>.
it's got a sense of your body, and i'm going to change your body.
it has feelings, it's anger and happiness.
it also has memories, like your childhood scenes being turned on in front of you.
and it has this continuous narrative comment in the stream of conscious mind.
and at the heart of this film, you're testing all this directly.
this film is the stream of consciousness, the subject of the experience of mind and the world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental facts of human existence.
each of us is conscious.
for all of us to film it, you and you are.
there's nothing we know a lot about directly.
at least, i know about consciousness directly.
i can't be sure that you are conscious.
and consciousness also makes life worth living.
if we're not conscious, nothing in our lives will be meaningful or valuable.
but at the same time, consciousness is one of the largest phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these internal movies
why are we not just robots treating all this input, producing all this output, without testing this internal film at all
now nobody has the answers to these questions.
i would suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is inherently objective.
consciousness is inherently intuitive.
so there could be no science of consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century, this was the dominant view.
psychologists studied behavioral scientists, studied brain neuroscientists who were not, and no one even mentioned consciousness.
until 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little research on consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, this all started to change.
neuroscientists, such as francis think, like roger do, said it was time for science to study consciousness.
and since then, there was a real explosion, a success of scientific research about consciousness.
and this was a fantastic job. it was special.
but it had some major constraints so far.
the point of consciousness in recent years was to look for relevant relationships, relevant relationships between specific areas of the brain and certain conditions of consciousness.
we've seen some of this kind of work from francis <UNK> and the wonderful work i just gave a few minutes ago.
now we understand much better, for example, the types of brain regions that fit with conscious experience to see faces or pain or feeling happy.
but that stays the science of non-zero-sum relationships.
and it's not explanation science.
we know that these regions in the brain fit in certain types of conscious experiences, but we don't know why they fit in.
i'd like to illustrate this by saying that this kind of work from neuroscience is so that some of the questions we want to answer about consciousness, questions about what some brain regions and what they're doing.
but somehow, these are easy problems.
we don't sacrifice neuroscience.
there isn't really easy in the problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't have real mystery in the core of this: why should all of the physical processing in the brain be associated with consciousness primarily
why is this internal self-assembly film
now, we don't have anything to explain that.
you might say, let's just give neuroscience a few years.
and i think of that as another emerging phenomenon, like traffic traffic congestion, and like so many other people, and like life as well, you'll find a solution for it.
classical evolution is all cases of emerging behavior, how traffic congestion acts, how the hurricane works, how the living organism will reproduce and adapt and adapt, all questions about the objective act.
you can apply that to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human brain are emerging: how we walk, how we talk, how we play chess, these are all questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, questions become about behavior among easy problems.
when it comes to the hard problem, the question becomes, why is all this behavior going to be an autonomous experience
and here, the standard model of evolution, even the standard model of neuroscience, doesn't really have much to say.
now, i'm a scientific person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, and for a long time, i built my head in the wall and i looked for a theory of consciousness in a rich physical terms that might work.
but eventually i got to the conclusion that it didn't only work for systematic reasons.
and this is a long story, but the basic idea is that what we get is a clean, clean interpretation of a physical perspective, and it depends on the brain, it's stories about how the system works; it's <UNK>, it's <UNK>, and the behavior that comes out, and it's great for the simple problems of how
this is something completely new, and this is always another question.
so i think we're kind of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're familiar with that, but it explains the science of chemistry, and it explains biology, biology, and biology is a part of psychology.
but it doesn't seem that consciousness fits in this picture.
on the one hand, it's true that we're conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to love our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness now is a kind of gentlemen, and it's kind of a thing that we need to combine to see the world, but we don't see how it is yet.
in the face of an abstract state like this, there might be a need for radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that seems to start crazy before we can deal with scientific consciousness.
now, there's a couple of videos of what these crazy ideas might be.
my friend dan have, who's here today, has one.
my crazy idea is that there is no hard problem of consciousness.
the idea of the inner film is all of a kind of illusion or uncertainty.
in fact, all we have to do is explain objective functions, brain behavior, and then we've demonstrated everything we need to explain.
well, i say, i hope it's more powerful.
this is the kind of radical ideas that you need to remember if you want to have a <UNK> theory of consciousness that depends on your brain.
at the same time, to me as a couple of other people, this view is very close to denial of consciousness simply to be a gift.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
in the rest of the time, i want to explore two of the two main ideas that i think might have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is the foundation.
sometimes physicists take some aspects of the universe in a fundamental book: place and time.
the laws are essential by control, like the laws of gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and the basic laws are not dominated by any basic aspect.
instead, she's on her <UNK>, and from here she's building the world.
now sometimes, we fit the key list.
in the 19th century, we've found that we can't explain the electromagnetic phenomena in terms of the present principles of place and time and the laws of newton, by assuming the fundamental laws of <UNK> and assuming the electric charge as a fundamental component of those laws.
i think that's the situation we're in with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in the current analog light of time and time and time of time, then from reason to reason, you need to expand the list.
the natural thing to do is suggest consciousness itself as a fundamental, fundamental building of nature.
and that doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens up the road to apply science to it.
what we need then is to study the fundamental laws that organize consciousness, the laws that connect consciousness to the other fundamental principle: place and time and physical processes.
physicists sometimes say that we want basic laws so simple that they can be written on the front and the front side.
well i think something like that is the situation we're in about consciousness.
we want the basic rules so simple that we can write them on the front and the front.
we don't know what those laws are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness can be worldwide.
every system could have some degrees of consciousness.
and we sometimes call this view public self "<UNK>," "<UNK>," the "<UNK>" point of the mind, "every conscious system, not just humans, dogs and flies, but even thick dung microbes, elementary particles.
even the will has a certain degree of consciousness.
it's not that smart triangles or they think.
and it's not that it's going to be true because it's thinking, "unfortunately, i'm always moving around from the speed of light.
i could never slow down until the name of flowers. "
no, it's not that.
but the idea is that resurrection can have some elements of raw autonomy, some primitive religions of consciousness.
this may sound a little bit to you.
i mean, why would anyone think of this kind of crazy thing
some motivation comes from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is an essential, like the place of the time and the time of the time, it's natural to assume that it may also be worldwide, like they do.
it's important to know that even though the idea seems invisible to us, it's less intuitive for people than different cultures, where the human mind is more natural to call nature.
the deeper drive comes from the idea that maybe the most simple and powerful way of finding basic rules that connect consciousness to physical coordination is to connect consciousness to information.
when there is information processing, there is awareness.
complex information processing, as in humans, means complexity.
and processing simple information means consciousness.
and what's really interesting is that in the last few decades, the neuroscience and the brain has actually taken this kind of theory and developed it precisely with mathematical theory.
it's got a mathematical measure of the information that we call the
and it's supposed to be that point with consciousness.
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of integrated information, a high degree of
in the mouse, there's an average degree of information, that's still important, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when you come down to the worms, the worms, the particles, the low amount of dna.
also, you get less information, but it's still above zero.
in <UNK> theory, there's still a zero degree of awareness.
in fact, he suggests an essential principle of consciousness: the higher the degree of
now, i don't know if this theory is true, but it's actually, i think, the leading theory now in consciousness, and it's been used to combine a whole range of scientific data, and it has a beautiful property that's actually being very simple that you can write on the front side of your field.
the other leading drive is a general motivation that can help us combine consciousness in the physical world.
and what physicists and philosophers have noticed is that physics is incredibly abstract.
it describes the structure of reality using a bunch of equations, but it doesn't tell us what's behind them.
as stephen hawking says, what do you put in the equations
well, according to general psychology, you can leave the equations of physics as they are, but you can make them half the flow of consciousness.
that's really what physics does ultimately, half the flow of consciousness.
from this point of view, consciousness is what we put in the equations.
according to this view, consciousness does not shake outside the physical world as a kind of adding.
it's right at the heart of the physical world.
this view, i think, is a general view of self, has the ability to change our relationship to nature, and it may have some very serious and ethical consequences.
and some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i shouldn't eat anything that has consciousness, and so i have to be a psychopath.
now, if you're going to direct the public self and take this opinion, you're going to get very hungry.
so i think when you think about it, it will lead to a change of perspective, whereas what matters for moral and moral purposes, it's not really consciousness, but the degree of awareness and consciousness.
it's also natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.
what about the artificial intelligence system in "<UNK>, norman
is it conscious
well, if you take a general view of self, surely it has a complicated information processing and a complex information application, so it's very likely the answer is yes, it's conscious.
if that's true, it's interesting ethical issues about the morality of developing smart computer systems and closed to closed.
finally, we may ask about the awareness of all groups, this planet.
do you have a state of canada and its own optimism
or at a local level, is an integrated group like at ted, are we now having a special collective awareness for ted, an internal film of this collective ted group different than the interior of each part of our group
i don't know the answer to that question, but i think at least a question worth looking at.
well, so a general psychology point is a radical vision, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident about the first crazy idea, which is a fundamental consciousness, than a second idea, which we consider as a challenge.
i mean, the point is that looking at a number of questions and a couple of challenges, like how these little pieces of consciousness are added to the kind of complicated consciousness that we know and love.
if we can answer those questions, we're going to go the right path towards a serious theory of consciousness.
and if we can't, this is probably the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we can't predict overnight problems.
but i think we'll find a solution for it eventually.
understanding consciousness is the real key, i think, to understand the universe and to understand ourselves, both.
you might just need the right crazy idea.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village.
growing up was a normal nature.
i went to school with my friends and my sisters and my little sisters.
all of that was normal.
and when i was 15, one of the people in our local community called my family and wanted to get a prize for a society's achievement.
and my dad said, "that's really nice, but there's a single problem out there.
it didn't actually do anything. "and they were right on that, you know.
i went to school, i got good degrees, i had a little job after school in my mom's bathroom, and i spent a lot of time watching "<UNK>," and "<UNK>."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but all of that was true.
i've never done anything outside the box.
i wasn't doing anything that could be considered to be taken out of disability outside the equation.
years later, i was in the course of the second computer in afghanistan, and i was 20 minutes before i started the legal study of 11 years old, and he said, "miss, when are you going to give your talk"
and i said, "what word"
you know, i've been explaining to them about the law of <UNK> for 20 minutes.
and he says, "you know, your mind is honest.
as you know, when people come to school, they usually say things to people.
"it's usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: it was the experience of this only boy with his own needs as inspiration.
but we don't, for this boy, that's not the bears, i mean, that's true for a lot of us.
for many of us, the children are not our teachers, or our nurses, or our nurses.
we're not <UNK> we're there.
and in fact, i'm sitting on this stage looking like i'm on this wheelchair and you're probably expecting me to <UNK> right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i'm afraid that i'm going to answer a lot.
i'm not here to get you there.
i'm here to tell you that we're lying on disability.
yes, we have joined the lie that the disability is a bad thing.
it's bad, and to live with disability, it makes you extraordinary.
it's not the thing that makes you extraordinary.
in the last few years, we've been able to publish this lie beyond that, through social media.
you may have seen images like this: "the only disability in life is bad behavior."
or this: "<UNK> is unacceptable." actually.
or this one: "before we stop, try!"
this is just a bunch of examples, but there are more examples.
you know, you might have seen the little girl without a photograph of a photograph, holding the pen and the pen.
or you might have seen a child running on a synthetic fiber fiber.
and these images, there's a lot of them -- these are what we call "inspiration."
and he used the term in fact, because it represents one group of people for other people's interests.
so in this case, we are the <UNK> of the <UNK>.
the purpose of these images is to <UNK> them, to look at them and think, "well, no matter how bad my life is, i can make it worse.
i could have been that person. "
but what if you were that person
i didn't count the number of times when strangers would come to me telling me that they thought i was brave or inspiring, and that was before i had some kind of work coming out.
they were going to wake up in the morning and remember my name.
and that brings us to the tool of these images, these images that bring special needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they exist in order to look at it, and then we think that everything is not bad for you, to make everything that you worry about in perspective.
and life as a person who is really, really hard.
we're going beyond some odds.
but those things that we're behind are not the ones we think.
it's not things about our bodies.
i use the term "good people" on purpose, because i'm shared with what's called the disability social model, which tells us that we're doing a lot more good than our bodies or our own.
and so, i've lived in this body for a long time.
and i really love it.
you do the things you need to do, and i learned to use it as well as you do, and that's what kids do in those images as well.
they don't do anything extraordinary about nature.
they use their bodies and up to the top of their performance.
so, is it fair to bring them and start them in our way, to publish those images
when people say, "you are inspired," you are passionate.
and i know why that happens.
it's because of the lie, which they sell to us the lie that disability makes you an extraordinary person.
we don't actually do that.
and i know what you're thinking.
you know, i'm here to smell inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god <UNK>, don't you sometimes make some things"
and the thing is, yes.
you learn from other people all the time.
but i don't know that i'm more comfortable than that.
i'm learning that it's a brilliant idea to be used to catch things that might have fallen away from you. i'm learning that amazing trick: how to heat your phone battery out of your wheelchair battery.
genius!
we're learning from each other with our powers, our forces, not against our bodies and our bodies, but against the world of <UNK> and <UNK>.
i think it's true that this lie and a secret to us about disability is a huge corruption.
it makes life difficult for us.
and that quote, "the only disability in life is to act," the reason that that quote nonsense is because it's not true, because of the social model of disability.
there's not enough samples to turn it into the electric ambulance.
never! smile on a tv screen will never make the text shown to deaf people.
there's not enough standing in the middle of a library and radiation to make a positive card that will transform all those books into a textbooks.
it's never going to happen.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the natural thing.
i want to live in a world where a girl in 15 sitting in her room watching "the lack of fat," which is left to see it, but it's a bad only thing because she's watching her seat.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations for disability, where we're just <UNK> out of bed and remember our name in the morning.
i want to live in a world where the real achievement of the homeless people, i want to live in a world where a child at 11 high school in high school doesn't be surprised at all because your children use the chair.
disability doesn't make you special, thank you. it's about what you thought you knew that made you special.
what has to do with the <UNK> and the <UNK> of sensory communication
and what's the speed of flying a virus
unfortunately, i'm not going to answer a single question of these questions, so in addition they've tried to meet me.
when most people are actually thinking about the movie "<UNK> <UNK>" and tom <UNK>'s "<UNK>" with their hands in the air, but the <UNK> isn't science fiction.
our own reality is something that's going to happen in our lives, and it's going to happen because we have the tools to achieve that, and people have to realize that, because our own reality is going to change our lives just as much as all the internet and mobile phone.
so how do we get to a <UNK> reality
the first step is the step i'm wearing now, google glasses.
i'm sure google glasses are familiar with many of you.
what you may not see is google glasses are a device that allows you to see what i see.
here's an experiment that feels like an expert in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try a recipe for you.
i have to use words.
i've got to forget about what you're going to do to fill me with our diversity.
with google glasses, we can put this under quality, and we can feel like the enemy in the field at 100 miles an hour, getting the blood in your ears.
you can feel what a <UNK> guy looks like running towards you trying to cut your head in every book.
and i was at the left end of this, and it wasn't that good.
now, i have some footage to show you what looks like wearing google glasses under quality to give you that sense.
unfortunately, it's not a picture of my local football turn because my daughter thinks that emerging technology is what happens when it's floating, but we -- we do what we can.
so, let's watch some videos.
chris <UNK>: come on.
ah, exposure to a square block.
hey let's get a little closer.
ready
come on!
chris <UNK>: so as you can see, a little bit of a bad feeling like a bad, bad ball in a football field from a <UNK> perspective.
now, you may have noticed that there are some people who will share: the rest of the team.
we have a video about that one gift from the university of washington.
the main middle player: here, rats! rats.
blue! eight blue! come on!
ah!
ca: again, this makes you a little bit closer to what it's like to be in the stadium, but that's not even close to being in my local football role.
they want that experience.
they want to be in the field.
they want to be their favorite eyes, and they've already talked to me on youtube, on twitter, and they said, "can that be applied to the main middle player
and what's next player
we want that experience. "
well, once you get that experience with google <UNK>, how do you make it bigger
how do we step next
well, i'm going to take that step by what's called the temporal lobe, and i'm sure many of you are familiar with it.
and as the dalai lama broke out of the most virtual reality devices that were invented and invented at all, that's not the right thing to do.
i'm going to show you that this is not a <UNK> in this video.
man: ah! ah!
no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh my god!
chris <UNK>: so this is a man's experience on the death train, afraid of his life.
so what do you think that would be like to experience that as you fill in the video of your arms, your arms would go through the line and the guns, and the gun would be powerful before you run your touch on the ground
so what do you think that would be like the experience of that when it's a <UNK> court at the front of the network, or the ball would send the ball back in
so what do you think it would be like to experience that as you fold down the side of a mountain at over 70 miles an hour into the olympic hills
i think the <UNK> of their old parents could go up.
but this is not a <UNK> reality.
this is just virtual reality.
how does it turn to an own reality
it turns out to be a very own way of looking at this information as being able to control people's desire to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our better teams
how do we use this to win games "
because the difference always uses technology to win games.
they like to win; this gives them money.
so a brief glimpse of technology in my local football turn.
in 1965, i had a lot of the main medium player so he could call games faster.
they won and they won paul this year.
the other difference is an accident.
watch the game more people because it's getting more interesting.
it was faster.
in 1994, he put my local football role inside the <UNK> of the main middle player and later defense.
the games saw more people because they were faster.
it was even more funny.
in <UNK>, imagine you're a player coming back to the body and you show your game right in front of your own right face to your <UNK> plastic bags that you're actually wearing right now.
no more anxiety about playing games.
no more anxiety about having written games and games.
just take the interaction out.
and as a very hard part of this, because the tasks are missing cause the loss of the game, and as the result of the loss of the game.
your games are going to fail to act as a coach.
they don't want to.
but the own reality is not just a case of a hybrid game.
his own reality is also a way to get all of that data and use it in real time to improve how you play your language.
how could that be
well, a very simple example is a camera in every corner of the professor <UNK> down, giving you a vision of all the people down there.
you also have information from quality sensors to the technology that's being worked on right now.
we take all of that information, and we make it flow and flow.
the good difference makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and they produce an extra load of information.
that determines the good difference.
it's bad, and now, your information technology department is as important as the <UNK> department.
explore about data not for the privilege anymore.
it could also be the record records, who knows
what would that look like in the stadium
well, imagine you're the main middle player.
i took a break and then came back.
we explore the stadium looking for a free <UNK> all of a sudden, a bright flash on the left side of your condoms teaching you that your invisible vehicle is running at you.
in the normal case, you won't see it, but the <UNK> system teaches you that.
step towards the goal.
another flash is for a free future.
you pass the ball, but you're going to go into the hubble moment.
the ball is about its course.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on <UNK>, you see a bar of grass that lights up and you know that they're going to replace.
you go, and you catch the ball, and you run, and the touch of the earth.
the body is getting excited, and i'm going to talk to him at every step in the way, watching from every perspective.
now this is the thing that will create a huge, big difference in the game.
we're going to make a lot of people watch, because people want this experience.
they want to be in the stadium.
they want to be my favorite example.
their own reality is going to be part of sports, because it's very comfortable not yet.
but the question i'm going to show you is, is this all possible to use an <UNK> reality
will you just use it for your attention, your <UNK>, your <UNK>
because i think we can use a better reality for something larger.
i'm sure we can use a <UNK> reality as a way to promote physical communication during the same human species, through literally, to try to find someone else who looks like somebody else.
we know what the value of this technology is for the sports system.
it's worth spending billions of dollars a year.
but what is the value of this technology that we have in a classroom trying to show how much he has of his actions from his health perspective
what is the value of this technology as a woman, or russian, to try to show the world, how is it to live in action
what is the value of this technology for <UNK>, <UNK>, or bill <UNK>, and they're trying to inspire a generation of children to think more in space and science rather than a quarter of our winter reports and our sisters
ladies and gentlemen, the <UNK> reality.
the questions that we ask, and the dollars we do, the challenges we face, as usual, come back to us.
thank you.
she recently went out of california's street drill after 23 years.
most of that was spent in south county in martin county, which includes the bridge of the golden gate.
the bridge is a creative building, known at the world level as the aesthetic <UNK>, and the pacific ocean, an inspiring inspiration.
unfortunately, it's also a factor of suicide workers, where after the most part of the world, they try to commit suicide.
the golden gate bridge opened in.
joseph
suicide on the bridge is not practical and not possible. "
but as they opened more than 47 people and <UNK> to that bridge.
some believe that traveling between your neck of the bridge will lead to another, this bridge holds the idea of your heart and it will keep you from falling away from your mouth, your water at the bottom and your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when we use the bridge to suicide.
after a heat fall, four or five seconds, the body hits the water at a rate of 75 miles an hour.
that shock of bone disorder, which is burning after that biological organ.
lots of people die of collision.
and those who don't die don't understand a general <UNK> about no force, and then you know.
i don't think those who choose this way in suicide understand how awful death is that way.
this is <UNK>.
except to go on the ground, there are 32 inches of iron balance for the bridge.
this is where most of these people stand before they kill themselves.
and from my experience, i can tell you that the person if he gets to that table, and for the moment of his life, it's very difficult to bring it back.
i took this picture last year of a past while this young woman was talking to the officer who was looking after her life.
and i can tell you that we've been able to successfully do that today that we're going to get rid of the fence.
when i started working on the bridge, i was not trained.
we were struggling to meet these calls.
it wasn't just bad for people who were trying to commit suicide, but also for themselves.
it's been a long way since then.
now, the old officers and psychologists train new officers.
this is craig <UNK>.
i met dave at june 22 last year when she received a call in case that she was trying to get suicide sitting on the middle of the bridge.
i responded, and when i arrived, i watched eric speak with the bridge officer.
he was 32 years old, and he came on a plane from new jersey.
in fact, he came here twice before this time from new jersey to try to commit suicide on this bridge.
so about an hour after talking to craig, he asked if we knew the story of <UNK>.
if you remember in the greek myth, <UNK>, and send him to earth with a box, and then tell her, "don't ever open the box."
but one day, he could be curious from
i was moved to the park and to the park, and all sorts of evil against humans.
the only news in that box was hope.
and they then showed him, "what would happen if you opened the box and there was no hope"
silence for a moment, and it has a precious influence, and then a man.
this guy's crazy, smart guy from new jersey just giving birth to suicide.
i happen to do this one night, and i think as i talk to them, i didn't look like i'd done everything i could, because the next day, my family call was going to have happened to me.
they came and they asked him to do that.
the unexpected damage of suicide affected by many people.
so i'm going to ask you this question: what would you do if one of the members of your family would love to be suicide
what would you say
how do you know what you're going to say
by my experience, it's not just talking but by watching.
listen to understanding.
don't argue, don't blame, don't tell that person you feel, because you probably don't feel.
just to get you there, it may be the turning point you need.
if you feel like somebody who thinks of suicide, don't fear being heard and asked about it.
one way to ask this question is this: "other people in similar circumstances think about ending their lives; do you think of them
the face of a person who is directly saving his life is a turning point for him.
some of the other signals you can see: people, believe that life is terrifying and it's never going to get better; disability, belief that there is nothing we can do about it; we drop out of social life; and loss of desire in life.
i had this talk a few days ago, when i got an email from a woman i wanted to read.
she lost her son on january 19 this year, and she gave me this mail just a few days ago, and after she called her back, i'm going to read you.
"hi, kevin, i expect you're at ted now.
there must be a wonderful experience.
i think i should be on the bridge the weekend.
so i wanted to leave you with a note.
and i was told to connect my word to people and to their neighbors and to tell their friends who told their sisters, etc.
i'm still afraid of something, but i'm already beginning to realize those moments that mike's not going to come home.
mike was driving his car from <UNK> to san francisco to watch the san francisco team match with his father 19 from january.
but it didn't go forever.
i called up to his brother and left him out of his mouth that night.
and the next morning, my father came to my house and told me that mike's car was standing near the bridge.
and he noticed that he had noticed that he jumped from the bridge at 1: 58 o'clock last night.
thank you so much for supporting those who were just for a very temporary time very vulnerable to themselves.
who of us didn't feel vulnerable even without myself
it's very difficult to space on.
tell you what i'm telling you.
he lost the golden gate, he was supposed to be the intersection of the beautiful <UNK>, not a grave.
i thank you very much this week, and i bet. "
i can't imagine my courage to walk over the bridge and walk on the way that she has taken away from her son that day, and only her passion to continue life.
i want to introduce you to a man who described hope and courage.
on march 11, 2005, i responded to a radio judge by potentially trying to commit suicide on the <UNK> passage near the north tower.
and i led my bike on the subway street, and i noticed that man, kevin <UNK>, standing on the side street.
when he saw me, he picked up the pedestrian barrier, and he stood on that little tube that would roll over the tower.
and for the next hour and a half, kevin listened to me, and he talked about <UNK>.
kevin decided on that day that he would come back to that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, kevin came back.
"this is a new beginning, this is a new life."
but i asked him, "what was it that made you come back and give life and hope for another opportunity"
you know what he told me
he said, "you listen to me.
and i close with my talk, and i just listen to me. "
shortly after that, i received a letter from kevin's mother, and here's the message with me now, and i'd like to read it to you.
"dear mr. <UNK>, nothing happened at 11 o'clock in march, but you're one of the reasons kevin's survival now.
and i was very surprised that kevin was a <UNK>.
he's been diagnosed with mental illness from now regularly.
kevin <UNK> was hired when he was six months old, and i didn't know at all about the luxury of the warrior, but thank god, we know that now.
kevin <UNK> says.
we really stand god for being.
and the city is for you, and the city is <UNK>. "
and at the bottom of the message, i wrote, "internet, when i visited san francisco's public hospital that night, they had written your name on your patient.
i really wanted to correct that mistake. "
today, kevin is becoming a professional and active organ in society.
we're frankly talking about making that day and saying, "i'm hoping that the issue will inspire others."
suicide is not just something that i experienced during my work.
it's a personal thing.
my grandfather received suicide by itself.
even though it's done, it's just too close to your own record, but it's got a chance to recognize it.
that's what suicide does.
most people, or people who think suicide, don't want to hurt another person.
they just want to finish the special importance.
usually, it's done in three ways: sleep, drugs, alcohol or death.
during my work, i responded and served in hundreds of calls to try to commit suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i was directly responsible for have only lost two conditions, but two very large conditions.
and they took it from it, tony.
and the guy was talking to him about an hour.
and as i talk to him, hold my hand three times.
over that last one, he looked at me, and he said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
he jumps back.
terrifying, completely awful.
i also want to tell you, the vast majority of people we meet on that bridge do not provide suicide.
in addition, those few who won the bridge and have lived on their experience, that one or two percent, most said that, at the moment when they chose that barrier, they knew they had committed a mistake and they wanted to live again.
what i'm saying to people is that the bridge doesn't only get martin about san francisco, but it also gets people together.
that connection, or the bridge that i love, is something that each of us should fight for.
suicide can be destroyed.
there's help, there's hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different from what you are, but, in you, you know who you are, and that question is burning in you: how does it become
i may be a fan of that, but i'm not a fan, i'm not an expert at all.
so when i became a fashion model, i finally felt like i had the dream that i'd been dreaming about since i was a child.
my external personality is associated with my inner truth with my self.
for many complex reasons, i'll come to her later, when i look at this picture, then, i felt i'd done that. i'd done that. i got up.
but last october, i realized that i was only at first.
and in fact, we put inside the boxes by <UNK>, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even in our bodies.
some people have the courage to break that, and they don't accept the limits that they have because of their skin color or because of beliefs around them.
these people are the source of a constant threat to the status quo, for which we are currently threatened.
in my case, over the last nine years, some of my neighbors, some of my friends and colleagues and even <UNK>, did not know what history was.
i think, mysterious, this is what's called <UNK>.
this is secret.
i've been recorded at birth as a boy based on the outside of her brain.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, and i walked around the house, i always put a shirt on my head.
and my mother was asking me, "how can you wear that shirt on your head all the time"
i was like, "mama, that's my hair, i'm a girl."
i knew then how to define autonomy.
the military, it was still an absolute reality; it was impossible, but now we know it's much more flexible, it's more flexible.
because of my success, i didn't have the courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world is dealing with us, which is hoping to live an experience.
every day, i'm so grateful that i'm a woman.
i have a mother and a mother and a family who really accepted me as i would like to be.
many are not that lucky.
there's usually an old habit in asian culture celebrating a mystery in the military.
there is a gods that are acting for compassion.
there's the gods of <UNK>, the god of migration.
and that's when i was eight, i was in a ceremony in the philippines with those secrets.
i was at the front of the theater, and i remember, this beautiful lady in front of me, and i remember that moment something inside of me saying, this is what i want to give you.
so when i was 15, i still wasn't a boy, i met a lady named "<UNK>."
she was the boss of an atheist's audience.
that night she asked me, "how did you not bring me to the beauty dress"
i was told that if i wanted to do that, i would do it with recording cards and clothes, and that night, i'd won the swimming clothes and better in the long <UNK> and the second center in the competition was between 40 and 40.
that moment changed my life.
and all of a sudden, i was introduced to the beauty of the world.
and it's not to be the first profession to be the queen of beauty, but i have the opportunity.
and so from 15 to 17 years i was involved in most of these shows, until i was involved in a competition that was played in a diameter truck, literally, or again, a competition that was held next to a rice plant, and when it rains -- and in the philippines it was a big rain, it had to transport the competition
i've worked with strangers, especially when we travel to remote regions in the philippines.
but, more importantly, i met some of my best friends of that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said that he had been approved to send access to america, which meant that i could move to america.
i fought that.
i told my mother, "mama, i enjoy it.
here with my friends, i love traveling, and i love the queen of beauty. "
but two weeks later, she called up and said, "you know, in america you can change your name and your name"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also said to me, "i put a <UNK> in my name."
and she also had me when i had surgery in thailand in '19th year.
that's interestingly, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand, their performance is better and better and more safe in those surgeries.
at that time in the united states, you have to take surgery before you change the name and the military.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember when i wanted to get my driver's license license in california, and my name was the "son."
that was a powerful moment.
for some people, personal identity is leadership or even to get alcohol, for me, it was about being alive, to feel happy.
and all of a sudden, my fear started to be an alternative.
i felt i could achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a model.
many are not happy with luck.
i think it's because of this woman named <UNK> <UNK>.
she's from new york, and she's a young lady who was living her life as a spring, but hatred around her life.
and for most of my community, this is the reality of our lives.
our suicide rate is higher than the average year.
in november 20, we organize a global pause for the day of the will.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who stand up and stand against injustice.
this is mit and johnson and <UNK>.
today, this particular moment, this is a moment that i've been becoming real.
i was no longer able to live my true existence for myself and only my own.
i'd like to give the best to help others to live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, naked, until one day, there will be no need for the 20 of november.
and my inner truth made me accept myself.
can you
thank you very much.
thank you very much, thank you very much.
i wonder what you would say, especially for parents, but with friends, for family, for anyone who finds herself in the face of a child or someone who's facing or walking through an extraordinary position of sex that's been defined by, what can you say to a family of that person to help them become better, and a kind of
narrator: of course, okay. first of all, i'm very lucky.
the support system, especially with my mother's support, and family, itself was very powerful.
i remember every moment i'd like to train a young, young woman, count, or sometimes calling me and say that their parents don't kill that. i was putting up the phone and calling my mother, "mama, can you talk to that woman"
and sometimes it's a business challenge, and sometimes it doesn't work, but that's just the case of sex in your neighborhood, right
i mean, we're all born when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start this talk is sometimes the specific sex for us don't agree, and therefore there must be space that people can be <UNK>, and that conversation we should fight has to be with parents, colleagues, colleagues.
one of the best movements, at the beginning, is compared to how the gay movement began.
it's still too much to do.
there must be understanding.
there can be space to ask and ask questions, and i hope all of you will be my inventor.
kt: thank you very much, that was fantastic.
in so many, like, "good communities" -- we know parents are usually like their kids, but i'm one of the few who know how <UNK> i'm proud of this thing.
she started her campaign for education and defense of her rights, in 2007, and when she was forced for her efforts in 2011 and her national peace prize, she became very famous for her country.
before all that, my daughter was, but now, i'm her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at human history, the story of women is a story of unfair, inequality, violence and abuse.
as you can see, in men's societies, from the beginning, when a house is born, birth is not celebrated.
and she's not mixed up, whether she's her mother or her son.
neighbors come in and they don't play machines.
mother is not very comfortable and comfortable with a home.
when the first girl is born, the first daughter, is very sad.
when the next daughter is born, the mother is born, and when it is expected to generate a male son, but a third girl is born, mother feels guilty as a bribe.
not only is she suffering, but also a girl, a new girl, when she grew up, she was suffering as well.
at the age of five, when she has to be in school, she stays at home while her male brothers go to school.
and even 12 years old, somehow, a good life lives.
we can joke.
we can play with her friends on the streets, and go on the streets like the star.
but when you become a teenager, when you enter your 13 years old, you stop leaving the house without facilities.
it runs between four walls in between.
it's not a person that is free anymore.
it becomes what's called the privilege of her son and her family and her family, and if she ate the limits of that honor, she might be killed.
interestingly enough, the honor code for his meal doesn't just affect the life of the girl, but it also affects the lives of the males in her family.
i know a family of seven sisters and one brother, and that one brother, headed to the gulf, to earn the living for his seven brothers and his mother, because he thinks he's going to be my wife if i teach her seven skills to live and to become a living.
this is a brother, a healthy man who enjoyed his life and his sisters for what's called the privilege.
and there's a lot more often in the "<UNK>" societies.
"good girl" should be very, very quiet and very honest.
that's the standard.
the good girl should have been very quiet.
it should be silent and to kill her father's decisions and her older than her, even if she didn't like her.
if she's married to a man who doesn't like her or a old man, she has to kill her, because she doesn't want to look at her as a printing press.
if you married at a very young age, you have to accept that.
otherwise they would change a printing press.
and what happens in the end
in a traditional word, it's like a horse, put it in bed and then they give you more kids and girls.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, he will know the same lesson as the <UNK> and the <UNK> and the same lesson as the privilege of his family.
and this ring goes along and goes on.
ladies and gentlemen, millions of women can ask us if we think differently, if we think about women and men in a different way, if women and men in the communities like ours are careful in developed countries, if they can hold some family habits and community habits, if they can break away the laws of the systems in their countries, which
she's our brothers and sisters, when i was born to our brothers, and for the first time, believe me, i don't like the new babies, i'll be honest with you, but when i look in her eyes and believe me, i've got a great honor.
and before he was born a long time ago, i thought his name was, and i was fascinated by a hero of honor in afghanistan.
her name was <UNK> from <UNK>, named my daughter named after her.
a few days after i was born and born, my daughter came to my son -- my father was the accident -- came home and brought the family tree, the family tree, looked at the tree, and i saw it track 300 years of our ancestors.
but they were all men, and i picked up my film, i added a line to my movie, and i wrote, "<UNK>."
and as she grew up, she became four and a half years old, and she was in my school.
now, you might be wondering, why do i remember being a teacher at school
i have to mention this.
this may be a concept of <UNK> in canada, in america, in many developed countries, but in poor countries, in the societies of women and ethnic communities, this thing is a very important thing to live in.
you go to school means you know its identity and it's called.
the acceptance of school means that she has entered the world of dreams and a world of democracy where she can detect the power of her future life.
i have five sisters, none of them can go into school, but you'll be surprised, it's two weeks, when i was hoping for a canadian bank, when i was hoping for the family of demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason for that is that i've never seen a whole lot of my life written in a document.
that's why my daughter invited me to appreciate my daughter.
the thing my dad couldn't afford to make for any building, i thought i had to change it.
i've always been able to appreciate the intelligence of my daughter.
i was surprised to sit with me when my friends would come.
i wanted him to go with me to many meetings.
and all of these medical values, which were the conditions to deliver their personality.
she didn't just have it. she just gave her up.
all of these medical values have broken up to my school students and boys both.
i used education as a way to download it.
i learned two students, i learned a couple of girls, but not learning a student lesson.
my students learned from boys not to learn a lesson called the false privilege of privilege.
my brothers and sisters, we were looking for extra rights for women and we were struggling to get more, more space for women in the community.
but we have a new phenomenon.
it was particularly human rights and particularly women's rights.
it was called "order."
which means full of shared share of women in all political, economic and social activity.
hundreds of schools try.
girls are tired of going to school.
and i told the women on the not a can and they didn't let them go to the market.
stop the musicians, the girls sing their girls and they kill them.
millions were suffering, but the few people were talking about it, and the most beautiful things were to be surrounded by people who were killing their rights, and to be talking about rights.
it was really the most exciting thing.
at the age of 10, i stood up and i stood up, and i stood up for education.
i wrote a note for a blog and a blog, and i went for a documentary film for the new york times, and i talked from every platform i could talk to.
and it was the most powerful voice.
it's spread all over the world.
and that was why the taliban 'movement was unable to carry its list, in october of october 2012, and they caught it on their head in a nearby distance.
this day was like the day of my family and me.
the world turned into a big black hole.
when my daughter was living and dying, i thought to my wife, "did my mother ever get my daughter"
but she suddenly said, "please don't see you.
i stood on the right side.
i've put your life at stake for peace, for peace, for education, and i've inspired your daughter to bring you back.
both of you were on the right, and god would protect them. "
these few words meant a lot to me, and i didn't ask that question again.
when she was in the hospital, she had a big discussion, and she had a lot of beer because she had a lot of beer, and she had a lot of beer, and she had to look at my wife's face.
but my daughter didn't fall asleep.
she was saying to us, "i'm fine with my <UNK> and <UNK> and <UNK> in my face.
i'll be okay, please don't worry. "
she was a <UNK>, and she <UNK> her.
my brothers and sisters taught us the resilience on the most vulnerable, and i'm glad to share my argument that even though it's the symbol of child rights and women, it's like any 16 year-old girl.
she's crying when she doesn't complete and gave her home.
and i'm following her brothers, and i'm very happy to do that.
people ask me, what is the special thing in my 30s that made it so bold and so brave that he made it talk and be parallel
and i said, "don't ask me what i did."
but ask me what i didn't do.
i didn't catch their wings; that's it.
thank you very much.
thank you. thank you very much. thank you.
i had brain surgery 10 years ago, and since then, brain surgery has become very good for me.
i'm actually an engineer.
first of all, let me say i recently joined google's "google" group in google "and the surgery i'm going to talk about today is work before you join google and on the side before google.
well, it's said, well, there's a stigma in the brain.
am i still smart or not
and if the answer isn't, can you gain intelligence over and over again
after i had a part of the brain that i had to deal with that.
it wasn't a part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was a dead part of the sticky material at the brain center that controls the hormones and the main neurons.
right after the surgery, i had to decide how much drugs i had to take every day, and that if i had to take this material, i would die within hours.
every day, 15 years ago, every single day i had to decide the structure and the combination of chemicals, the chemistry, to survive.
and they had a lot of hard decisions.
but luckily, i was doing practice, and therefore, i decided to try to find the best dose because there was no clear reference for that.
i started an experiment where i was really surprised by how simple change in the mix happens to be considered <UNK> my feelings of self, my thinking and my connection to others.
one of the interesting situations: for two months, i actually did a standard drug experiment with a guy in the 20s, and i was shocked how my ideas changed.
i was angry all the time, and i'm thinking about sex constantly, and i'm also the smarter people at all, and also -- -- -- -- and of course, in years i've met young people like that, or i've had a little lower level of that thinking.
my case was extreme.
but, what surprised me was, i wasn't trying to be a fan.
i was actually trying to be, with some feeling of security, to solve a problem that i had in front of me, but that didn't work.
so i couldn't imagine that.
i changed the dose.
but, that experiment, i think, gave me an estimate of men, and why they might also happen to them, and also a lot better with men than then.
what i've been trying to do is to replicate the hormones of the neurons and to try to restore my missing instinct after the disease and my creativity -- my creative ideas and ideas.
and often i think through pictures, and even then it was very important for me to get these mental images that i use in initial models, if you will, in a way, an experiment of different ideas, different ideas, and other unknown experiences.
this kind of thinking is not a definition.
philosophers like <UNK> and <UNK> and <UNK> have seen this similar.
they all thought that mental images and ideas were the same.
and there is a decline in the present time, and many arguments about the work of the mind, but for me it's simple: mental images, most of us are essential to creative thinking and creative thinking.
so a few years later, i did the balance myself, and i had a lot of living mental images with a great deal of intuition and analyzing a lot of myself.
so i'm working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to a computer much faster
can you imagine, if you can, an embarrassing movie that you could only use for a living in front of the world
or a musician who can get the music out of his brain
these are amazing possibilities for the peers of the elite and of their ideas at the speed of light.
and the truth is, despite the obstacles to doing this is the expansion of the cognitive systems of the brain.
so let me give you a reason that i think we're kind of close with two two very favorite groups of neurons.
both of them use mri and functional mri to film the brain, and this is a picture of the brain from <UNK> and his colleagues at harvard.
in the left bar, you show a brain image of somebody who's rain into a picture.
the middle bar shows the brain scan the same person, and you see the same picture.
and the light on the right comes from the middle and the right, and the brain shows that the difference is barely there.
and so many people have been <UNK> and many different images, along with the same result always.
the difference between seeing a picture and imagining the same image, barely there was no difference.
follow, let me talk to you about the other experiment, which is the front of the <UNK> museum at the university of california.
they were able to model brain waves and turn them into a visual field that could perceive.
and let me introduce that to you.
in this experiment, people were shown hundreds of hours of video clips from a site of brain activity to create a much larger library of brain action for groups of videos.
then a new film was presented with new images, new people, different animals in it, and then the activity of a new brain is being analyzed again.
the computer, it uses only the survey data and it uses the brain activity to show the actual picture of the people watching the watch.
on the right-hand side, we see computer analysis, and on the left side, the real video.
the results are interesting and exciting.
we're so close to doing that.
we just need accurate improvement.
now remember when you see a picture versus imagine the same picture, that gives the same brain survey.
and this was done using the best accuracy of the brain to scan the brain now, and the accuracy of those parts have actually evolved thousands of times over the years.
so we need better precision over a thousand times to get a deeper glimpse of it.
how do we do that
there are a lot of techniques to it.
one is, you break the skull and you create electrodes directly.
i'm not responsible for that.
there are a lot of imaging technologies that have been collected, some of them have been given, but based on current mri, first of all, we need to ask, is this the end of the way for this technology
conventional wisdom says that the tool of loneliness to get more accuracy is much bigger, but only by the size of its growth, it provides some extra improvements in a certain sense, and not twice as much improvement as we want.
i'll give you an idea instead of a bigger magnet, to make better magnet.
there are a lot of techniques that are being applied in nanotechnology when it's applied in the magnet industries, it has a new category of worms, and in that technology, we can get very detailed and clear patterns of magnetic space in all parts of the brain, and by doing so, we can get <UNK> and <UNK> and <UNK> them into multiple
we can create more sophisticated structures by making a very simple balance, kind of like breathing and breathing.
so why is this important
many of the efforts for mri over the course of years have been to the industry to scale up, very large sizes, right
and yet many improvements in the resolution of imaging are really smart, creative solutions that are designed to analyze them in electrical frequencies that are used in mri systems.
also, rather than a single magnet that uses a specific magnet of patterns as well as an force waves.
and so, by combining magnet patterns with single radio waves of power that can dramatically increase the information that we can extract from one scan.
and in addition to that, we can describe everything we've learned about brain structure and memory to get improvement by a thousand times what we need.
and with the functional mri technology, we can measure not only blood flow, but measure the hormones and neural activity that we've been talking about at first and also perhaps direct neural activity, which is the dream.
a market that can bring our ideas back into digital media.
can you imagine that we could go beyond language and communicate directly with human ideas
what can we do then
and also how can we learn to deal with the features of human ideas that have not been generated
we think the internet is big.
there are huge questions.
it could be a way of resistant to our ideas and our communication skills.
and actually, this same tool could lead to a cure for alzheimer's disease and similar diseases.
we have enough tests to open the door.
no matter what, tell a year is that going to happen in 15 years
it's hard to imagine that it's going to take longer.
we need to learn how to do this step together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about going out, and not as used to hear, not as the word is used, not about sexuality.
i think we all have secrets.
they may be told to be someone you love for the first time, or tell someone you're pregnant, or tell someone you're having cancer, or start any other difficult conversation that you've ever been through in our lives.
every talk about the secret, it's a difficult talk, and even though our parents may be so different, but the experience of living and freedom from freedom is a global experience.
it's scary and scary, but it has to be done.
a few years ago, i was working at the south pole of <UNK> <UNK>, a local restaurant in the city, and while i was working, i was going through the periods of extreme struggle for the girl: i was fascinated by the quote from "my father's father's <UNK>."
and depending on my <UNK> pants and my <UNK> and how recently i've created my head, the question often has spread from me, usually by a little kid: "are you a boy or a girl"
and there would be a embarrassing silence on the table.
and my wrist pulls me a little bit, holding me the coffee vessel and gives me a little bit more.
the father is moving the paper and <UNK> it and the mother is shooting back to her baby and crying her.
but i don't say anything, and i stay stuck inside.
i got to a point where every time i walked to a table where a child was three and 10 years old, i was ready to fight.
that's a terrible feeling.
so i promised myself, next time i would say something.
and i'm going to go into that hard competition.
so, within weeks, that happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
the silence is familiar, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all of the great women's studies at this table, i have a quote that called "let's build the <UNK>."
i have a quote called "<UNK>."
i even have a few clips of <UNK> and <UNK>.
so i took a deep breath and i looked down at me and i looked at my face as a four year-old girl in pink, and it's not a challenge for the feminist, just a kid who has a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another breath, sat down next to it, and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of embarrassing.
my hair's a little hair like a boy, and i'm wearing a boy's clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear pink, and sometimes you want to wear your own clothes today
well, i'm the kind of girl who gets me more comfortable in comfortable clothes. "
and she looked at the girl carefully, with no difficulty to remember, and she said, "my favorite day is the ultraviolet with the fish.
can i get a pie, please "
and so it was it. just, "oh, well, you're a girl.
what about that <UNK> "
it was the easiest difficult conversation i ever had.
and why because the <UNK> girl and i, we were both real with each other.
so like many of us, i lived inside a couple of tanks in my life, and yes, most of the time, i happened to be a rainbow.
but inside, in the dark, we can't say what color these walls are.
i just knew what i felt like to live in a closet.
so really, my clothes and my clothes aren't different from you or you.
of course, i'm going to give you 100 cents why my experience was harder than your experiments, but here's where the shark gets better: a hard word isn't relatively bad.
difficulty is hard.
who can tell me to explain to someone that you've announced your prize is harder than telling someone you've just done your job
who can tell me that the story of your child is harder than telling your five years is that you're going to get divorce
there's nothing harder, it's just hard.
we need to stop our problems with other problems in order to reduce ourselves or want the burden of our problems and be raised on the fact that we all have trouble.
at some point in our lives, we all live inside our tanks, which may feel safe, or at least safer than we stand behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter from anything being made for a living, a closet is not a place for a human being.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
so for me, i had a chip and a horse <UNK>, a horse and a shoe and i had a high.
i wasn't very sensitive to being able to engage with any four child coming to the cafe.
i was frozen from fear, and i was sitting at the dark, dark corner holding this sexual bomb, and the foot on any movement was the biggest thing i'd ever done.
my family friends and friends, i've spent my life solving my life trying to avoid my belief, and now i'm turning things on upside down.
i've been fascinated by the pages of the scenario that i've always had for a long time and a long time, so if you don't get away with that bomb, it's going to spend on you.
one of the biggest living memories that the bombs were at my sister's marriage party.
it was the first time that i was so large that i knew that i was gay, and as i did it with the identity, in tony's black, i was walking around the tables and then my parents stopped sitting on it by friends that i was, people i knew two years ago.
and shortly after, one of the women reported, "i love craig venter!"
and then i started a war with the sex approach.

"well, yes, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we've never been there before, but we've heard it's amazing."
"hey, do you guys know else, and that's my hair
he's really a good guy and he never talked about his girlfriend. "
<UNK>, what is your favorite tv program
our favorite program favorite: will will be <UNK>.
and did you know who to love jack.
jack is our favorite. "
and then one of the women, confused me, but she wanted to show up to her support, and i thought she was standing in my class, and the last thing she said was, "well, sometimes my husband is wearing pink pants."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody was giving up their shoes.
so i can go back to my friend and to the love table that i have and i love to share with you, and i can hold them to the <UNK> through the poverty of the sexual waves that they brought with me, or i can hear that maybe it was one of the hardest things that they did, that starting with that debate was
sure enough, it was so easy to point out its <UNK>.
they're much more difficult to face, to recognize the fact that they were trying.
and what can someone show up to it without trying
if you were to be honest with someone, you had to be ready and prepared for the opposite.
so the serious conversations are still not my strength point.
ask anybody and food.
but i get better, and i follow what i like to call the three principles of the girl.
now, please take a look at this from a person's perspective like me, but do you know what it takes to come out basically is the same thing.
number one: be a fan.
take the <UNK> be yourself.
the kid at the cafe was not carrying a fight, but i was ready for a fight.
if you want somebody to be honest with you, it needs to know that you can cheat too.
number two: be <UNK> just break it up. it breaks down the barriers.
if you're gay, i admit that.
if you told your mother that maybe you would be a fan, they would have hope to change that.
we don't give them that sense of a false narrative.
number three, and most importantly -- don't apologize.
you're telling your instructions.
don't apologize for that at all.
some people can be calling up along the way, so, i apologize for your religion, but don't apologize at all about your truth.
indeed, some might believe me in you, but that's your own, not your own.
these are your own expectations around you, not your expectations.
that's their story, not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you want to write.
so the next time you find yourself in the closet with the black <UNK>, i know we've all gone through it before.
and you might feel very lonely, but you're not.
and we know that's hard, but we need you here, no matter what the walls are made, because i guarantee you that there are others staring at the keys and looking at the courage to open up the door, so be that person and show the world that we are more vulnerable than we are, and that the closet is not so
thank you, may not be a <UNK> enjoy the <UNK>.
intelligence -- what is it
if we look at the evolution of perspective into intelligence, one of the first examples was this famous quote from the <UNK> quote that he said: "the question of whether a machine can think as interesting as the question of whether a sidewalk can swim."
now, as a teacher, when i was doing this, he meant him as a computer scientist, like now <UNK>.
but, if you look back, and you think about what is the most innovative project that allowed us to build an industrial father swimming and an industrial father to fly, you find that only by understanding the physical mechanisms of swimming and flying, we were able to build these machines.
and so, a few years ago, i started a program to try to understand the basic physical mechanisms that are intelligence.
let's step back.
let's first start with an idea experiment.
imagine you're an alien who doesn't know anything about biology on earth or neuroscience on earth or intelligence on earth, but you have wonderful telescopes that you can see the earth, and you have a very long life, so you can see the earth over millions, but billions of years.
and i saw a really weird effect.
i watched, as i walked through the ground, that the earth was constantly beaten up until some point, and this at a certain point, is about 2,000 o'clock, that the asteroids that hit the earth that was supposed to melt away and have been buried in a mysterious way or gone off before the earth.
now of course, as the earth comes, we know why we might be trying to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent it.
but if you're an alien who doesn't know any of this, and doesn't have any concept of global intelligence, you're forced to create a physical theory that explains how, even a certain point in time, the asteroids that destroy the surface of a planet have stopped by doing that.
so i claim that this is the same question of understanding physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program that i've been looking at a few years ago, i looked at a variety of topics in science, and in many areas, which have been going, i think, into an open, autonomous mechanism of intelligence.
for example, there have been a lot of different topics that tell us that our universe seems to be organized in a very accurate way to develop intelligence, and, especially, to develop the cosmic conditions that we want to limit the diversity of future time.
in games, for example, in the hello game -- everybody mentioned in 1997 when the deep blue pyramid that i made, which happened to me, and a few people realize that in the last 10 years, in the facebook game, it's said a much more challenging game because it has a much bigger working factor, too, and a lot
these are technologies that are trying to increase future choices as possible during play.
ultimately, in machine motor planning, there are a lot of new technologies that are trying to use the ability of robots to increase the freedom of future behavior to the highest limits of complex tasks.
and so, we take all these topics and we combine them with each other, i wondered, a few years ago, is there an evolutionary technology of intelligence that we can bring out of all these different topics
is there a single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yes. ["t & amp; t"] what you're seeing is probably the closest flying to an e c for intelligence i've ever seen.
so what you see here is a statement that intelligence is news, b, that works on increasing freedom of future behavior.
it's working on increasing the freedom of future behavior, or keeping choices available, using some t power, with possible future times, forward, even future time, now.
in short, intelligence doesn't have to go ahead.
intelligence needs to increase the freedom of future behavior to the extreme borders and keep the choices open.
and so, having this only equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
how specific is its potential
are we built by human intelligence
are we built artificial intelligence
so i'm going to show you a video now that, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this only equation.
narrator: modern research has suggested that the universes that produce more chaos, or more chaos, in their lifetime, have got to tend to be more vulnerable to having intelligent and intelligent beings.
but what if this temporary cosmic relationship between the really brilliant and intelligent relationship suggests a deeper relationship
what if behavior and behavior doesn't just relate to the long-term production of it, but actually it's coming directly out of it
to discover that, we developed a software engine called <UNK>, designed to produce long-term <UNK> for any system that he finds himself.
interestingly, my parents were able to succeed in multiple animal intelligence tests, in playing human games, and even in money, the stock exchange, all without giving them instructions to do that.
these are just some examples of the reality.
just as a human standing straight without being, here you see a stick mechanism in a stick mechanism using a cart.
this behavior is particularly extraordinary because we have never given a goal.
he decided by himself to balance the stick.
this capacity to balance will have applications for human robots and technology for human assistance.
just as animals use things as tools to get to the narrow spaces, here we see the <UNK>, again to the individual group, was able to move large opportunities that represent an animal to another place to make small opportunities, which represent a tool, which is a small space where there's a third opportunities and a third opportunity out of its original
this tool uses the ability to have applications in industry and smart agriculture.
also, just like some other animals that are able to cooperate to pull the end of the mountain at the same time to release food, here we see that our ability to make a typical version of that task.
this ability to cooperate interesting applications for economic planning and many other fields.
my colleagues have massive applications in many areas.
for example, here we see successfully playing a <UNK> game, showing its ability to play.
here we are seeing new communication systems on a social network where there is constant contact with friends and successfully keeping good contact with the network.
this ability to mimic the networks also for health care, energy, intelligence.
here you see the <UNK> running the tracks of the ships, discovering successfully and using the
using the model itself, it has huge uses of the problems in defense, in defense, in the care and mobility services.
finally, we're here to see <UNK> discovering regularly and save a cheap buy plan, sell a high price at the financial paper market in reality, and increase the property that runs successfully off me.
this ability to organize risk will have massive applications in the economy and insurance.
alex <UNK>: so what you've just seen is that a set of smart cognitive behaviors like human beings, walking straight through and social cooperation are all following one equation, which is a system that has set up a system to increase our struggle in future behavior to the far boundaries.
now, there's a deep irony here.
going back to the beginning there was always this notion that if we developed robotic intelligence, there would be a mechanical revolution.
they will answer the mechanisms against us.
one of the big consequences of this work is that maybe all of these decades, we had the reverse concept of the mechanical revolution.
it's not that machines are becoming smart at first and it's been this <UNK> and trying to control the world.
it's exactly the opposite, that the tendency to control all of the future times is more fundamental than the principle of intelligence, that the aspects of public intelligence can actually be released directly from control, rather than the opposite.
another important thing is search for purpose.
i'm asked more often, how can you explain the ability to look for goals in this frame
and the answer is, the ability to look for goals can be given directly from this other logic: as changed through a tunnel, a bottle in your future space, in order to achieve a lot of other goals later, or as we invest in financial selection, a little bit of <UNK> in the short term to increase your wealth over the long
it's about a long-term motivation to increase your freedom of future behavior.
and finally, richard feynman, a known physicist, once wrote that if the destruction of human civilization was destroyed, i was able to give only one principle to help them rebuild civilization, that the principle must be that all matter around us must be made out of little elements that happen when we move away from each other, but as soon as we
so my version of this quote is to give our grandchildren to help them build the aspects of artificial intelligence or to help them understand human intelligence, which is the following: intelligence has to look at it as a physical process that tries to push the freedom of future behavior to the extreme borders and avoid constraints in their future.
thank you very much.