i'm going to talk to you about 30 years of the history of engineering.
this is a very big thing to get in 18 minutes.
it's a complicated topic, so we're going directly into a complex place: to new jersey.
because 30 years ago, i was from new jersey, i was six years old, and i was living there with my father in a city called <UNK>, and this was my daily bedroom.
at the corner of my room there was a bathroom that shared with my sister.
and between my room and my bedroom, there was a stealing that was on the living room.
and there's where everybody would come together to watch tv, so every time i went from my room to the bathroom, everybody would see me, and every time i walked out and pulled out my clothes, everybody would see me.
i was looking like this.
i was feeling a little bit uncomfortable, so i hated that feeling.
i hated that <UNK>, that prayer, i hated that room, that house.
and that's architecture.
it's over.
that sense, that emotions that are aware of, that are the power of architecture, because architecture is not the mathematics of <UNK> it's the <UNK> of <UNK> scenes that are going on.
and it's not surprising that we feel that way, because according to the conservation agency, americans spend 90 percent of their time outside.
90 percent of our time is surrounded by engineering.
that's a huge thing.
what it means is that engineering determines who we are in ways we don't actually know.
what makes us think of something, and can be predicted by what is so easily predicted.
that means that when i show you a building like this, i know what they're going to think about: "power and stability and democracy."
and i know you're thinking about this because it's based on the basis of building an organization that has been built for 8,000 reasons that it has been brought to the greeks.
that's the trick.
this is the driver that engineers use to create that emotional link with the forms that plants build.
it's an emotional link that we've used for a long time.
we used it 200 years ago to build banks.
we used it in the 19th century to build art museums.
and in the 20th century in the united states, we used it to build houses.
look at these young, poor, hard kids, and they have risk resources.
this is very useful because building things is terrifying.
it's expensive, it takes a long time, and it's very complicated.
and who are building these things -- developers and governments -- who are naturally afraid of innovation, and better to use just those forms that you know you're going to be using.
so we're ultimately getting data like this.
this is a beautiful building.
this is a library of <UNK> <UNK> that was finished in 2004, and it had, you know, that circular thing, it has a red axis, and you can guess what it's trying to say through this building: children, values of its history.
but it has no big faces with what libraries are doing today.
that same year, 2004, on the other side of the country, then we finished building another library, and it looked like this.
in seattle.
this library is about how we consume media in digital time.
they form a kind of public hiv for the city, a place for their own public community to build their views.
so how is it possible that in the same year, in the same country, both of them, both both of their parties, their two totally different parties
and the answer is that engineering works in a <UNK> principle.
on the first hand, we find innovation, where engineers are constantly pushing in the direction of building new technologies, studying new symbols, new solutions to how we live today.
that we pay and pay and pay so you make you all welcome.
we wear black clothes, we say we're <UNK>, we're stuck in our inner self because we have no other choice.
we have to go to the other side and again to take the symbols that you know you love.
and then they get happy, and you feel like it's life, and you start testing again and you get the ball back and forth and we've done this for the last 300 years, and certainly in the last 30 years.
30 years ago, we just came out of the 1970s.
engineers then were busy testing something called the cruel architecture.
it's related to concrete.
you can guess what that is.
small windows, scales on the scales.
this is very difficult.
we get closer to the 1980s, and we started engaging these symbols.
and the judge paid the other side.
you take those shapes that you know you love, you break them down.
you add <UNK> and you add the <UNK> and you use new materials.
and i'm going to get you through.
you can't afford to avoid enough.
you take english's and you go to other have been, so it can be a glass of middle ages.
the sizes were larger, the sizes became more and more <UNK>.
the young men became the size of the columns.
it's grown up as big as buildings.
that was our pockets.
but in the 1980s, it's great.
we all meet in commercial farms and we're all moving to live in suburbs, and there, in the suburbs, we can create happen to be engineering.
and these are <UNK> they can be french or french or <UNK>.
maybe it has <UNK> to do with <UNK>.
this is the idea of after urbanization.
that's the idea that the symbols are about.
it's easy, cheap, because instead of building places, we make memories of places.
because i know, and i know you all know, this is not a problem.
he's a prostitution.
so they're worried, so we start to turn the clock back to the other side.
at the end of the '80s and early' 90s, we started testing what we call the '70s movement.
we started giving historical symbols away, and we learned new design techniques that were supported by computers, and we came up with a bunch of new structures, from breaking into forms.
this is academic stuff that's been put in place, and it's not completely <UNK> we're largely <UNK>.
usually the patient has a unit to come back to the other side.
and then something wonderful happened.
in 1997, this building was opened.
this is the have now been the have been the now, and the two hundred <UNK> frank <UNK>.
and this building has radically changed the relationship of the world of engineering.
paul really said that the only one of those big signs when the more likely the migrant and the most fully focused ones about a building.
new york times considered this building to be a place.
swimming has doubled by 160 percent when this building is finished.
suddenly, everybody wanted one of these data: los angeles, seattle, chicago, new york, 1973, and <UNK>.
everybody wants a similar building, and it's become a <UNK> research everywhere.
it's the first engineer to become a star.
now, how could these forms -- the most powerful and traditional form -- how could they be around the world
this happened because the media worked so quickly to let us know that these shapes mean culture and swim.
and the emotional response is going to go in these shapes.
and so did every mayor of the world.
so every mayor knows that if she's a tree like this, she has culture and swim.
this phenomenon has happened with the beginning of the new millennium for some other stars.
and what happened with the <UNK>, and what happened with these few architects with the early millennium beginning was to start to impact the whole field of engineering, where digital media started to increase the speed of information.
think about how you consume engineering.
1,000 years ago, you had to walk towards the nearby village to see a building.
the speed of transportation: you can sail in a ship, you can take an airplane, you can be a pilot.
the speed of technology: you can see it in the newspaper, or on tv, at the end, we all have engineers and engineers, and the building's been copied from the site.
engineering is everywhere now, and that means that the speed of communication has finally been followed at the speed of engineering.
because engineering is moving quite quickly.
it doesn't require a thinking of design for a long time.
it's built that takes a long time, three or four years, and at that time, you design an engineer, a <UNK> or a hundred other buildings before you know whether to make a building that was designed for four years or not.
that's not in the engineering of a very positive feed.
so we end up with data like this.
it's not just a very peaceful architecture that's been created for two years, it's a <UNK> movement.
20 years ago we were coming out of such data because we didn't know how much they loved them.
this won't happen again, i think, because we live on one edge of the greatest engineering revolutions since the concrete invention of concrete, steel, elevator, and what's out of a media revolution.
so the point is that when media is applied to the clock, it starts to move faster and faster, until it gets to the far side of really in unless it's really going to show the difference between creativity and symbols, between each other, between engineers, among you, with the public.
we can now create symbols that are emotionally motivated in real time from something completely new.
let me show you how this works through a project i just finished recently.
then we brought in and started to join this building that was broken.
this is a city center called dr. <UNK> effect in new york state.
it's a <UNK>.
we invited him to make courage, and he was different from all the data that the population came back, and he was scared and his client was scared, and the population was scared, and he gave him a series of real concepts and put them on facebook and put them on facebook and off, and we let people start doing what they do
but this meant that before i finished building two years ago, the building was already part of the community, and when the corridors looked exactly the same as the final product, there would be no way to go.
this building was already part of the community, and then in the first summer, when people started to paint and share images of social media, it was no longer building as a building but as a building, because this isn't just images of the community, it's just the images that you're in this building.
and when they use it to tell it to the <UNK>, they become part of our code, and what they do is they just fill the road on our collective memory, and they create these emotional symbols of us to understand it.
that means that we don't need to be able to help us to think about engineering anymore.
we can tell each other what we think about engineering, because social media has not only changed our relationship to each other, but also the relationship between us and the data.
think for a moment about the <UNK> there in the <UNK>.
if that building was going to be built today, the first thing they were going to do was go to the internet and find new libraries.
so let's think about choices, about creativity, and think deeper about what the library is.
that's the total.
that's the kind of quantum that you can take with them and take them and take them off, and let's say, there's not one definition of what the library is today.
and let's be part of this.
experiments are so much more likely that they give them freedom to their choices.
everything is different now.
engineers aren't yet used to these mysterious creatures that use hard words and hard words, and they never come back to the service, that the customer who won't kill anything we've never seen before.
engineers listen to you, they're afraid of engineering.
that means that the clock that's moving forward and backwards from one way to another, from movement to another, has no meaning.
we can move forward and find valuable solutions to the problems that our society faces.
this is the end of the history of engineering, and this means that tomorrow's data will look very different from today's data.
which means that the public spaces in the ancient city can be unique and active in the way that a modern city works.
what it means is that a church in brooklyn can be a tradition there, not a tradition of our history in a red tradition as we think a field should be.
that means robots will build our building, because we're finally ready to build up the shapes that we're going to create.
it also means that buildings are connected to nature's landscape, not the opposite.
that means that the cars in miami beach in florida can be a place for sports and you can also marry there late at night.
that means that three architects in the east river in new york, and they're going to dream about half a million dollars of people who are all gathered about their case, no longer even have one customer.
that means that it's never a smaller building than to create, and that little baby lamb is very powerful for the animals that are designed for your own.
and that means that you shouldn't be nice to be crazy, like this little ugly building in spain, where engineers dig a hole, they <UNK> the concrete around it, and when they dry the concrete, they let someone come and they'll just pull the lights up and they just sit there and they have this hidden, <UNK> little, <UNK>
and that became one of the most magic places to watch spanish.
because it doesn't matter if a cow is from our data house or a robot that he built.
it doesn't matter how to build, what matters what you build.
engineers already know how to build more intelligent and easier green data to use.
we were just just going to get them all to be aware of.
and finally, i never was on the other side.
take an engineer, use an engineer, work with us to design better data, better cities, better cities, because higher standards are.
not unlike data in our society, it determines our spaces through the simplest spaces: local libraries, houses where we raise our children, and the ones that take them from a bedroom to a bathroom.
thank you.
this is my brother's daughter going to go.
she just turned six and started walking.
and she walks in that wonderful way, and all the children in her first year, where they release.
it's absolutely wonderful.
and one of my favorite things is now to stare at itself in the mirror.
they must be influenced by the mirror.
and we laugh, we laugh, we kill themselves, those big, fluorescent bulbs.
it's a beautiful thing.
and all her friends seemed to do it, and my mother told me that i was also doing it, and that invited me to think about when i stopped doing it
when suddenly is not a diplomat to look like us
because obviously we don't like our appearance.
every month, 10,000 people on google are "am i ugly"
this is a <UNK> she's 13 years old and lives in have been in.
like a teenager who wants to be crazy and accepted.
it's sunday night.
she's getting ready for school next week.
and she's a little scared and she's very afraid because although her mother tells her all the time she's beautiful every day at school, she tells her she's ugly.
and because of the difference between what her mother says, her mother in school says, "she doesn't know."
so, imagine a video of herself and putting it on youtube and asking people, "am i beautiful or ugly"
well, so far, i got 110 comments.
some comments are awful, even though they didn't even sing the thinking about it.
this is a normal childhood girl who takes a regular baby like this in the most sensitive emotional times of her life.
thousands of people are selling videos like this, most of them are teenage girls who are communicating this way.
but what's getting them to do that
well teenagers these days are rarely alone.
they love stress to be on the web all the time, they talk, they send messages, they like them.
and they comment, they share, they post -- this never ends -- never before, if we're in this kind of constant, immediate, immediate way.
as one mother told me, there was a party in their bedroom every night.
simply, there is no privacy.
and the social pressures you're holding this tough.
this environment of constant coming up with our children and training them to estimate their value by the number of their own partners that they get and the kind of comments they've been given.
there is no classroom between life on the web and life out there.
it's hard to distinguish what's real, what's fake.
and it's also hard to distinguish between what is original and what digital is.
what is the important event for everyday events
and where are they looking for inspiration
let's see the kind of picture of a <UNK> that's filled with girls' sources today.
they're going to be models of the imagination, the dynamics of the platforms.
it's becoming usual to draw facial features and to see a little bit of a connection.
and it's about the space between your bodies.
and our approach is to encourage an artificial loss.
these trends are with physical vision that women like in public culture.
it's not hard to figure out what girls compare to themselves.
but boys are not vulnerable.
you see the <UNK> and <UNK> of <UNK> muscles and strangers, but what's the problem with all of this
of course, we want our kids to create two individuals that are consistent, but our culture is in the form of culture, we are bringing them together.
it has to spend time and effort on social skills and physical skills.
and school shows that they start to look worse.
six out of 10 girls choose not to do a task because they're not so beautiful.
we're not talking about high activities, but basic activities like <UNK> individuals, and they're <UNK> in society, about one percent, of all teenagers.
and the lesson of the classroom is not involved because they don't want to.
they're paying attention to their appearance, one out of five who is lost in school when you're not kidding about how they're talking about choices when you think you don't look good.
especially if you think you're not a fan.
if you can get a little bit less of a chance of your colleagues.
who don't worry about this, and this is a house in finland and the united states, china, regardless of your actual weight.
more of them, we talk about it.
think about your shape, not your real shape.
the lack of trust and trust goes down to the classroom and the health is destroyed when the teenager gets less confident, he's training less, he's doing fruit and vegetables.
we're doing an <UNK> food.
it leads to eating disorders and goes down to an average level of self.
it makes it more interesting to get people to get it and get it to depression, and all of these things make them more likely to drink and take drugs.
they have health care, they have access to sexual practices, they have to engage in sexual practices, they have to hurt themselves.
the pursuit of the perfect body is cleaning hospitals.
it costs our governments billions of dollars every year, and women stop giving it a little bit.
regardless of whether they're already set up to work more quickly to have a job interview on the day when we don't feel confident and confident.
let's think about how it affects our economy.
and what's what's going to be said to the doctor to overcome this is to allow those possibilities to enter the interest of each of us.
but how do we do that
talk alone about problems.
it's not enough to solve it.
if we want to make a change, we have to do something.
there are three ways to create change, the first kind of value of trust in the sense that we should be teaching teenagers.
how to overcome their stress response, how they build their respect for their own happiness.
it's good to have programs that mean that right now, but unfortunately.
most of them don't come right when you realize that a lot of these good programs are good.
we want to get worse from ourselves, and so we have to make sure that our kids are not getting programs that are not just getting positive effects.
it leaves an effect that studies have shown that the best quality programs are dealing with basic aspects.
the first is the impact of family, friends and relationships that we have, the impact of media and the media and the work of the peers, how we discuss and compare ourselves to others based on the <UNK>, talking about the appearance, the <UNK>, the <UNK>.
these are the most fundamental points of anyone who's ever started to teach active confidence in their confidence.
education and quality is very important, but this problem requires all of us to be a good role model for women and girls to be part of.
and it's a challenge that women show up in our communities.
you don't have to be able to control your way by taking a piece of hair or the size of your chest or expect to succeed like a <UNK>, because it doesn't run its beautiful beauty.
we need to see people not to mention it.
we need to care about the kinds of images that we publish and the reactions that we write in social networks.
we have to build on the people of the meeting that they have and the businesses that they have done, not their shape.
let me ask you when was the last time you accepted a mirror
and ultimately, we have to work together as communities, governments, entrepreneurs to change this culture, to transform our children, to appreciate their own, to respect their own lives, of well-being.
people in the community have to show up and engage people in the world.
and we put the lights on, and when we do that, then we can make change.
we want to create a world where our children feel free to be the best thing they can be, where i think they're not what they're saying or what they want to do in life.
think about what all this is going to mean for you in your life.
who would have thought of it
is it your wife
i love you
your daughter
her daughter and brother
your friend or maybe the woman who's away from you now is not.
what would it mean to be able to activate that critic's ear in there, which would allow him to make a longer or more lighter or smaller, or just set it up
what would it mean if we beat this in their own potential
today, our culture's obsession is really getting us to go through this.
but let's see our kids' real.
let's show them that their appearance is only one part of their identity and that we love them and their actions and their actions and their actions.
let's combine the self in our schools curriculum.
let's change the way we compare ourselves to others.
let's work together as communities of roots to governments to make happy children today, and the makers of change themselves tomorrow.
let's do that.
on the fifth of twitter, 1990, a man named mr. <UNK> walked into the manhattan hotel and before the temple of <UNK>, a leader of jewish defense.
it was not originally been convicted of the death, but when he was spending a prison on the wrong issues, he was planning with other men to attack tens of sites in new york city, including a deal of a campus and a jewish street headquarters and the u.n. headquarters.
fortunately, these graphs were diagnosed by the fbi agent.
unfortunately, the bomb for 1993 to the world trade center did not surround it.
he was <UNK> eventually he was <UNK> in the process.
mr. becomes my father.
i was born in pittsburgh, pennsylvania, in 1986, an egyptian engineer, and an american mother of love, who was a primary class teacher, and he was, instead of all in my college, i would live a happy childhood.
i've been seven years old, and my family's organic is changing.
when i was told that i was on the side of islam a few people, including most muslims, they wouldn't be to see him.
my own experience says that when people take their time to communicate with each other, it doesn't take effort to realize that in all, we all feel the same things in life.
but in contrast, in every religion, in every society, we will find a few people who are most excited and excited that they feel that they have to use all the necessary means to help others survive as they do.
a few months before he got arrested, he sat me down and he explained that on the weekends, some of his friends would go and pick a shot at long island in order to practice goals.
and he told me i was going to be doing this next morning.
we got to the helicopter of the helicopter, which was, without the science of our group, we were thrown by the fbi.
when my turn came to fire, my father helped me hold the gun on my shoulder and explain to me how he target the target after 30 yards.
on that day, another bullet hit by the little orange light that was above the target and what was surprising to everybody, especially for me, that the whole goal had exploded with the play.
my uncle turned to the rest of the men, and in arabic, he said, "where's his son."
that's the way that it's lost.
and apparently they were just kind of like being stuck on this comment, but it took a few years to really understand what they thought was funny.
they thought they saw me in the same destruction that my dad was capable of doing.
these guys were eventually convicted of a small truck, filled with 1,500 pounds of people out on the ground floor and <UNK> cars at the north tower of trade center, and they were causing six people to kill six and get out of 1,000.
these guys were my role models.
these were my <UNK>, which means "my uncle."
when i was 19, i had moved 20 times in my life, the instability of that in my childhood didn't really give me an opportunity to recognize friends.
every time i start feeling comfortable with somebody, that period that has to collect our computer for the next city.
and being a new student in the classroom, i was often being an adult.
i was hiding her identity from my colleagues in the classroom to her parents, but it turns out, being the great white boy and the new yorker in the classroom was pretty ridiculous.
so most of the time, i was spending my day looking at books and watching tv or playing video games.
and for those reasons, i had no social skills, at least, a lack of a <UNK> home, i couldn't get ready to face the real world.
i grew up judge by people based on an unexpected measure, like a race or a religion.
so what has opened my eyes
one of my first experiences that was happening in my thinking was during the 2000 presidential election.
during a program i was a member of college at the national council of youth in philadelphia.
my own group was focused on young violence, and being a <UNK> victim of most of my life, this was a very interesting subject to it.
the group members of the world were different from the life expectancy.
one day, at the end of the council, i discovered that one of the children i was a jewish writer was jewish.
now, it took me several days to show these details on the surface, and i realized that there was no natural food between us and the two.
i had never had a jewish friend before, and frankly i felt proud that i could go through a crisis that i'd been missing my entire life to believe it was impossible to get over.
a big turning point happened when i found our new project in bush really, which is a new park.
there, i met people from different beliefs and cultures, and it turns out that this experiment was essential in the evolution of my personality.
for most of my life, i was told that sexuality is deep, and therefore, all gay people have a negative effect.
and it happened, if i had the opportunity to work with some innocent actors in the show there, and soon i discovered some of them were just a little bit more bright, and less people were being attacked by others.
being a kid i was a kid who created me with a kind of empathy with other people's suffering, and it seemed completely unusual to me to share nice people in any other way that i loved to share with them.
and thanks to that feeling, i was able to compare the stereotypes i received when i was a child with the real life experience and treat people.
i don't know what it means to be a species, but i know what it means to me to answer something outside of my own brain.
and then dr. sue's program came.
john stewart told me, every night i had to be honest, we thought about my own work as an act of honor to realize that it was not about being a single, white, sexual, sexual relationship of its own personality.
he sometimes was a father's character for me when i yesterday needed machines.
inspiration can come from an unexpected place, and a jewish comedy has done a lot to affect and look at the world more than my father did, and i'm no longer a loss to me.
one day, i was talking to my mother about my view of the world that was changing, and she said something that i always hold on in my heart as long as i've ever been.
she looked at me taking care of her attention from trying to try enough work in his life, and she said, "i'm tired of hate people."
at that moment, i realized how much negative energy it would take to carry that hatred inside of you.
iraq's not my real name.
and i changed it, and i realized when my family decided to cut away my parents' interests and start a new life.
so why did i go out in public and put myself in a possible situation
well, it's simple.
i do this in hope that maybe someone will have forced me to use violence may listen to my story and realize that there's a better way, that if you're exposed to violence, you're not aware of it, you're not going to be a woman.
instead, i chose to use my own experience to fight against terrorism, against prejudice.
i do this for the victims of terrorism and terrorism, and the pain and loss that i tell them about terrorism.
for the victims of terrorism, i'm going to talk out loud against this business and to show you what my father did.
and basically, i stand here as evidence that violence is not a religion in religion or a race, and it's not a son that is on the stage of his father.
i'm not my father.
thank you. thank you. all of you. thank you, all of you. thank you very much.
now, you have a film set in your head.
it's a wonderful, <UNK> film.
it's being shown by 3d vision and the <UNK> technology of what we're seeing now, but this is just the beginning.
your film has a smell of <UNK> and a fiber.
it has a sense of your body, and you open your body and you break it.
it has emotions, it's anger, it's happiness.
it also has memories, like your childhood scenes being run in front of you.
it has this continuous narrative comment in the stream of conscious mind.
and at the heart of this film, you're testing this directly.
this film is your current consciousness, the subject of the experience of mind and the world.
consciousness is one of the fundamental facts of human existence.
each of us is conscious.
for all of us, he wrote his inner film, you and you are too.
there's nothing we know a lot about in a direct way.
at least, i know about consciousness in a direct way.
i can't be sure that you are conscious.
and consciousness also makes life worth living.
if we're not conscious, nothing in our lives is not worth meaning.
but at the same time, consciousness is one of the most dramatic phenomena in the universe.
why are we conscious
why do we have these internal movies
why are we not just robots treating all of these input, producing all of this output, without testing this internal film at all
now, nobody has the answers to these questions.
i would suggest that if we want to combine consciousness in science, there might be some radical ideas.
some people say consciousness is impossible.
science is inherently objective.
consciousness is inherently inherently.
so there can't be a science of consciousness.
for a large part of the 20th century, this was the dominant view.
psychologists studied behavior at least, and studied brain neuroscientists who were not, and nobody even mentioned consciousness.
even 30 years ago, when ted started, there was very little scientific research about consciousness.
now, about 20 years ago, this all started to change.
neuroscientists like francis and physicists like roger have said it's time for science to study consciousness.
and since then, there was a real explosion, a success of scientific research about consciousness.
and this was a wonderful job. it was special.
but it had some major constraints so far.
the axis of consciousness in recent years was to look for relevant relationships, relevant relationships between specific areas of the brain and certain conditions of consciousness.
we saw some of this kind of work from afterwards <UNK> and the wonderful work i gave a few minutes ago.
now we understand much better, for example, the types of brain regions that fit with conscious experience to see faces or pain or feeling happy.
but that remains the science of mutual relationships.
and it's not explanation science.
we know that these regions in the brain are going to fit in certain kinds of conscious experiences, but we don't know why they're going to fit in.
i'd like to illustrate this by saying that this kind of work from neuroscience is so that some of the questions we want to answer about consciousness, questions about what some brain regions and what they're doing.
but in a way, these are easy problems.
no neuroscience can be acquired.
there's really no easy thing in the problems of consciousness.
but it doesn't have real mystery in the core of this: why should all of the physical processing in the brain be associated with consciousness in the first place
why is this internal self-assembly film
now, we don't have what that explains.
you might say, let's just give neuroscience a few years.
and that brings to another emerging phenomenon like traffic congestion, and like a place like a place, and like life as well, you'll find a solution for it.
classic evolution is all cases of emerging behavior, how traffic congestion, how the hurricane works, how the organism spreads and continues and <UNK>, all questions about the objective work.
you can apply that to the human brain to explain some behaviors and human brain and emerging technologies: how we walk, how we talk, how we play chess, these are all questions about behavior.
but when it comes to consciousness, questions become about behavior among easy problems.
when it comes to the hard problem, the question becomes, why is all this behavior going to be an autonomous experience
and here, the standard model of evolution, even the standard model of neuroscience, really doesn't have much to say.
now, i'm a scientific person in the heart.
i want a scientific theory of consciousness that works, and for a long time, i built my head into a wall and i'm looking for a theory of consciousness in a rich physical terms that might work.
but eventually i got to the conclusion that it didn't work just for systematic reasons.
and this is a long story, but the basic idea is that what we get from a clean, clean explanation of a physical, physical, <UNK>, is stories about how the system works; it's a dynamic, a dynamic, and a behavior that's produced, is wonderful for solving easy problems, how it works, and how it works
that's something completely new, and it's always another question.
so i think we're kind of in trouble here.
we have this wonderful series of explanations, we're familiar with that, but it explains the science of chemistry, and it explains the chemistry of biology, and it's about biology, and biology is part of psychology.
but it doesn't seem that consciousness is in this picture.
on the one hand, from the point of view, we're conscious.
on the other hand, we don't know how to love our scientific vision of the world.
so i think consciousness now is a kind of gentlemen, and it's kind of a thing that we need to combine to see the world, but we don't see how it's going on.
in the face of an abstract state like this, there might be a need for radical ideas, and i think we might need an idea or two that seems to be crazy at the beginning before we can deal with scientific consciousness.
now, there's a couple of ways to what these crazy ideas might be.
my friend dan have, who's here today, has one.
my crazy idea is that there is no hard problem of consciousness.
the idea of the internal film is all of it involves a kind of illusion or uncertainty.
in fact, all we have to do is explain objective functions, brain behavior, and then we've just demonstrated everything we need to explain.
well, i say, i hope it's more powerful.
this is the kind of radical ideas that we need to be able to find if you want to have a <UNK> theory of consciousness that depends on the brain.
at the same time, for me to tell you about other people, this view is very close to denial of consciousness simply to be a gift.
so i'm going to go in a different direction.
in the rest of time, i want to explore two two most basic ideas i think may have some hope.
the first crazy idea is that consciousness is the foundation.
sometimes physicists are taking some aspects of the universe in a fundamental book: place and time.
they have a fundamental laws that are defined by, like the laws of gravity or quantum mechanics.
these properties and the basic laws are not being defined by any basic terms.
instead, she's on her <UNK>, and here she's building the world.
now sometimes, we fit the principles.
in the 19th century, we found that only we could explain the electromagnetic phenomena in terms of the current elementary particles and the time and the rules of newton, he described the fundamental laws of <UNK> and suppose the electric charge as a key component of those laws.
i think that's the situation we're in with consciousness.
if you can't explain consciousness in the current analog light of time and time and time and time and time, then from the reason door, you need to expand the list.
the natural thing to do is suggest consciousness itself as a basic, fundamental building of nature.
and that doesn't mean that suddenly you can't apply science to it.
this opens up the road to apply science to it.
what we need then is to study the basic laws that organize consciousness, the laws that connect consciousness to the other fundamental principle: place and time and physical processes.
physicists sometimes say that we want the basic laws so simple that they can write them on the front and the front part.
well i think something like that is the situation we're in about consciousness.
we want the basic rules so simple that we can write them on the front and the front.
we don't know what those laws are yet, but that's what we're looking for.
the second crazy idea is that consciousness can be worldwide.
every system can have some degrees of consciousness.
and we sometimes call this view public self "<UNK>," "the" public "points" and "the" <UNK> "points for mind, every conscious system, not just humans, dogs and flies, but even constant dung microbes, elementary particles.
even the will has a certain degree of consciousness.
it's not that smart triangles or they think.
and it's not that the light bulb is worried because it thinks, "unfortunately, i'm always moving around to light speed.
i could never slow down until the name of flowers. "
no, it's not that.
but the idea is that resurrection can have some elements of raw autonomy, some primitive religions of consciousness.
this may sound a little bit like a trick for you.
i mean, why would anyone think of this kind of crazy thing
some of the drivers come from the first crazy idea, which is that consciousness is essential.
if consciousness is an essential, like the place of the time and the time of the time, it's natural to assume that it may be worldwide as well, like they do.
it's worth telling that although the idea seems to be intuitive to us, it's less intuitive for people than different cultures, where human mind is more than calling nature.
the more emotional drive comes from the idea that maybe the most simple and powerful way of finding basic laws that connect consciousness to physical coordination is to connect consciousness to information.
when there is information processing, there is awareness.
complex information processing, as in humans, means complexity.
and processing simple information means consciousness.
and what's really interesting is that in our last few years, the neuroscience and the brain has actually taken this kind of theory and developed it precisely with mathematical theory.
it has a mathematical measure of the information and the information standard we call the
it's supposed to be a
so in the human brain, there's an incredible amount of information integrated, high level of
in the mouse, there's an average degree to information class, that's still important, and a very important amount of consciousness.
but when you come down to the worms, the worms, the particles, the weight of a single device.
as a weight of a lot of information is also, but it's still above zero.
in a theory of <UNK>, there will be no total degree of consciousness.
in fact, he suggests an essential basis for consciousness: the higher the degree of
now, i don't know if this theory is true, but it's actually, i think, the leading theory now in consciousness, and it's been used to combine a whole range of scientific data, and it has a beautiful property that's actually being very simple you can write on the front side of your field.
the other motivation for our own is that general self can help us combine consciousness in the physical world.
and what physicists and philosophers have noticed is that physics is incredibly abstract.
they describe the structure of reality using a bunch of equations, but they don't tell us what's behind them.
as stephen hawking says, what do you put in the equations
well, by the way of opinion general, you can leave the equations of physics as they are, but you can make them half the flow of consciousness.
that's really what physics does ultimately, half the flow of consciousness.
from this point of view, consciousness is the one that puts the fire in the equations.
according to this view, consciousness is not being burned outside the physical world as a kind of adding.
it's right at the heart of the physical world.
this perspective, i think, is a general view of self, has the ability to change our relationship to nature, and it may have some very serious and ethical consequences.
and some of these consequences may be unexpected.
i thought i should not eat anything that has consciousness, and therefore i should be a only atheist.
now, if you're going to turn your public self into this opinion, you're going to be very hungry.
so i think when you think about it, it leads to a change of perspective, whereas what matters for moral and moral purposes is, it's not really consciousness, but consciousness is a degree of well-being.
it's also natural to ask about consciousness in other systems, like computers.
what about the industrial intelligence system in "<UNK>, norman
is it conscious
well, if you take the general self's view, surely it has a complicated information processing and a complex information application, so it's very likely the answer is yes, it's conscious.
if that's true, it's interesting ethical issues about the ethic of the development of smart computer systems and the opening of it.
finally, we may ask about the awareness of all groups, this planet.
do you have canada's own democracy, your own optimism
or at a local level, is a whole group like at ted, are we now having a special collective consciousness for ted, an internal movie of this collective ted group different than the interior of every part of our group
i don't know the answer to that question, but i think at least a question worth looking at.
well, so a general psychology point is a radical vision, and i don't know if it's true.
i'm actually more confident with the first crazy idea, which is a fundamental awareness, than a second idea, which is to change our own.
i mean, the point is that looking at a number of questions and a couple of challenges, like how these little pieces of consciousness are added to the kind of complicated consciousness that we know and love.
if we can answer those questions, we're going to go the right path towards a serious theory of consciousness.
and if we can't, this is probably the hardest problem in science and philosophy.
we can't predict overnight problems.
but i think we'll find a solution for it eventually.
understanding consciousness is the real key, i think, to understand the universe and to understand ourselves, both.
you might just need the right crazy idea.
thank you.
i grew up in a very small village all over.
growing up was a normal nature.
i went to school with my friends and i met with my little sisters.
all of that was the normal.
and when i was 15, one of the people in our local community called my family and wanted to get a prize to get a society's achievement.
and what they said was, "that's really nice, but there's a single problem that's clear.
it's actually not done anything. "and they were right on that, you know.
i went to school, got good degrees, i had a little job after school in my mom's bathroom, and i spent a lot of time watching "the no more wild," and "<UNK>."
yeah, i know. what a contradiction.
but that was all true.
i've never done anything outside the box.
i had nothing to change my disability if i took a disability out of the equation.
years later, i was in the course of the second internet in afghanistan, and i was 20 minutes before the process of the 11 years of the year of the year of the year of the year, and he was raising a boy and he said, "miss, when would you give a talk"
and i said, "what word"
you know, i was explaining to them about the law of <UNK> for 20 minutes.
and he says, "you know, your mind is honest.
you know, when people come to school, they usually say things like "<UNK>."
"it's usually in the big room."
and it turned out to me: this was the experience of the only boy with his own needs as inspiration.
but we're not, for this boy, not that the bears, i mean, that's true for a lot of us.
for many of us, the children are not our teachers, or our nurses, or our doctors, or our doctors.
we're not <UNK> we're there.
and i'm sitting on this stage looking like i'm on this wheelchair and you're probably expecting me to <UNK> right yeah.
well, ladies and gentlemen, i'm afraid of my parents, i'm going to answer a lot.
i'm not here to get you in.
i'm here to tell you that we're lying on disability.
yes, we have joined the lie that the disability is a bad thing.
it's bad, and being in a disability, it makes you extraordinary.
it's not the thing that makes you extraordinary.
in the last few years, we've been able to publish this lie beyond that, through social media.
you may have seen images like this: "the only disability in life is bad behavior."
or this: "<UNK> is actually unacceptable."
or this one: "before we stop, try!"
this is just a bunch of examples, but there are more examples.
you know, you can have seen the little girl without a photo of his photo, holding the pen and the pen.
or you might have seen a child running on a synthetic fiber fiber.
and these images, there are many of them, all of these are what we call "inspiration."
and i use the term really, because it only reflects one group of people to benefit another group of people.
so in this case, we are the <UNK> of the <UNK>.
the purpose of these images is to <UNK> them, to look at them and think, "well, whatever my life is bad, i can draw it worse.
i could have been that person. "
but what if you were that person
i didn't count how many times he was coming to me and told me that they thought i was brave or inspiring, and that was before i had some kind of work that would come out.
they were <UNK>, and they were getting up in the morning and remember my name.
and that brings us to this tool of these images, these images that bring special needs and make them a tool for ordinary people.
they're there to look at it, and then we think that everything is not bad for you. to make everything that you worry about in perspective.
and life as a person who's really is very difficult.
we're going beyond some odds.
but those things that we're behind are not the ones we think.
it's not things about our bodies.
use the term "good people" by accident, because i'm shared with what's called the disability social model, which tells us that we're doing more good with our bodies or our own.
and so, i've lived in this body for a long time.
and i love it very much.
we do the things i need to do, and i learned to use it as well as you do, and that's what kids do in those pictures as well.
they don't do anything extraordinary about nature.
they use their bodies and up to the top of their performance.
so, is it fair to bring them and start them in the way that this is, to publish those images
when people say, "you are inspired," you are passionate.
and i know why that happens.
it's because of the lie, which they've followed to us, that disability makes you an extraordinary person.
it actually doesn't.
and i know what they're thinking.
you know, i'm here to smell inspiration, and you're thinking, "oh my god's going to run off, don't you sometimes make some things"
and the thing is, yes.
you know, people who do do other people all the time.
but i don't know that i'm more comfortable than they are.
i'm learning it's a brilliant idea to use to catch something that's probably fell in you. i'm learning that amazing trick: how to heat your phone battery out of your wheelchair battery.
genius!
we learn from each other with our own powers, our own forces, not against our bodies and our bodies, but against the world of our own and our own.
i think that lie and that lie to us about disability is a huge unfair threat.
it makes life difficult for us.
and that quote, "the only disability in life is the act of" the reason that this quote is nonsense is because it's not true, because of the social model of disability.
there's not enough plastic to turn it into the electric ambulance.
never! smile on tv will never make the text sound shown to deaf people.
there's not enough standing in the middle of a library and radiation, a positive card that will transform all those books into a textbooks.
it never happens.
i really want to live in a world where disability is not the exception, but the natural thing.
i want to live in a world where a girl in 15 sitting in her room watching "the missing blood ball" is only left to see it as a bad only because she sees a chair.
i want to live in a world where we don't have low expectations for the religious people where we're just being filled with bed and remember our name in the morning.
i want to live in a world where the real achievement of the homeless people, i want to live in a world where a child at 11 high school is never surprised because your brain is used in the chair.
disability makes you special, thank you. it's about what you thought you knew that made you special.
what is the relationship of <UNK> and <UNK>, of sensory communication
what's the speed of a man flying a can
unfortunately, i won't answer today to a single question of these questions, so also try to count them and to answer them.
when most people think of their own thinking about "<UNK> <UNK>" and tom <UNK>'s "<UNK>" in their hands in the air, but the <UNK> isn't scientific fiction.
an own reality is something that will happen in our lives, and it will happen because we have the tools to achieve that, and people have to realize that, because the own reality will change our lives just as much as all the internet and mobile phone.
so how do we get to a <UNK> reality
the first step is the step i'm wearing now, google glasses.
i'm sure google glasses are familiar with many of you.
what you may not have noticed is google glasses are a device that allows you to see what i see.
a video video is an experiment that is an expert in the field.
now, the only way to be in the field is to try a recipe for you.
i have to use words.
i have to forget the evidence to do that with the diversity of my mind.
with google glasses, we can put this under quality, and we can feel like the enemy in the field at 100 miles an hour, getting the blood in your ears.
you can feel what a <UNK> guy looks like running around at you trying to cut your head off with all his writing.
and i was at the back of this, and it wasn't a good feeling.
now, i have some footage to show you what looks like google glasses under quality to give you that sense.
unfortunately, it's not a picture of my local football turn because my football role thinks emerging technology is what happens when a cart is floating, but we -- we do what we can.
so, let's watch some videos.
chris <UNK>: come on.
ah, exposure is down to a square block.
hey let's get a little closer.
ready
come on!
chris <UNK>: so as you can see, a simple feeling of something like a bad, bad, bad ball field from a very <UNK> perspective.
now, you may have noticed that there are some people who are going to be familiar: the rest of the team.
we have a video about that one gift from the university of washington.
middle player: here, mice, 1.2! mice.
blue! blue! blue! here!
ah!
chris anderson: again, this makes you a little bit closer to what it looks like to be in the stadium, but that's not even close to being in my local football role.
and the guys want to have that experience.
they want to be in the field.
they want to be their favorite eyes, and they've already talked to me on youtube, on twitter, and they said, "can that be applied to the main middle player
and the next player's player
we want that experience. "
well, once you get that experience with google <UNK>, how do you get more
how do we step next
well, i'm going to take that step by what's called the temporal lobe, and i'm sure many of you will be surprised by it.
and the dalai lama and the dalai lama, of the most virtual reality devices that were invented and invented at all, and that's not the right thing to do.
i'm going to show you that this is not a fake <UNK> in this video.
man: ah! ah!
no! no! i don't want to play again! no!
oh my god! i'm going to be like a <UNK>!
chris <UNK>: so this is a man's experience on the death train, scared to his life.
so what do you think that would be like to experience that when you fill out the video of your arms, your arms would go through the line and the guns and the strong guns before you run your touch on the ground
so what do you think that would be like to experience that when the ball is a field at the stadium, the ball is behind the network, or the ball is sending the ball in
you think, how will that experience be experienced when it's breaking down the side of a mountain at over 70 miles an hour, and you're going to see the olympic hills
i think their old <UNK> can go up.
but this is not a <UNK> reality.
this is the virtual reality.
how does it turn to a personal reality
it turns out that in an own way, when a very difficult way of looking at this information is being used by people wanting to watch and say, "how can we use this to make our better teams
how do we use this to win games "
because the difference always uses technology to win games.
they like to win; that gives them money.
so a brief glimpse of technology in my local football turn.
in 1965, i was given a lot of the main medium player so he could call games faster.
they won the paul's report this year.
the other difference is an accident.
watch the game more people because it's getting more interesting.
it was faster.
in 1994, he put my local football role inside the <UNK> of the main middle player and later defense.
the games saw more people because they were faster.
it was even more funny.
in <UNK>, imagine you're a player coming back to the body and you show your game right next to your own right face on your <UNK> plastic bags that you already dress now.
no more anxiety about game tradition.
no more anxiety about having a toy written for a toy.
just get out of the interaction.
and because my late career is so hard, the tasks are missing cause the loss of the game and the experience of the loss of the game.
your games will fail to break you out of the uncle's work.
they don't want to.
but the <UNK> reality is not just a case of a hummingbird game.
a own reality is also a way to get all of that data and use it in real time to improve how you play your language.
how could that be
well, really simple, it's a camera in every corner of the professor <UNK> down, giving you a vision from the top of all the people down there.
you also have information from quality sensors to the technology that's being worked on right now.
we take all that information, and we make it flow and flow.
the good difference makes it flow in a way that players can use.
and the two individuals produce an extra feedback.
that determines the good difference.
it's bad, and now, your information technology department is important as the importance of the <UNK> section.
go around the data for the privilege of now.
it could also be the record records of who knows
what would that look like in the stadium
well, imagine you're the main middle player.
i took a break and then i fell back.
we explore the stadium looking for a free <UNK> suddenly, a bright flash on the left side of your condoms that you learn that your invisible limb is running at you.
in the normal case, you won't see it, but the <UNK> system teaches you that.
step towards the goal.
another flash is a free future.
you pass the ball, but you're going to go into the hubble moment.
the ball is about its course.
you don't know where it's going to land.
anyway, on the <UNK>, you see a bar of grass that lights up and knows that the reform is supposed to be.
you go, you catch the ball, run, touch the earth.
the body is getting excited, and i'm going to talk to him at every step in the way, watching from every perspective.
now this is the thing that will create a huge, big difference in the game.
we're going to make as many people watch, because people want this experience.
and the teacher wants to be in the stadium.
they want to be my favorite example.
the own reality is going to be part of sports, because it's very comfortable not yet.
but the question i'm going to show you is is this all we can use to be <UNK>
will you just use it for your own, your own, your own, your own, your own, your own
because i think we can use a more intimate reality.
i'm sure we can use a <UNK> reality as a way to promote sensory communication throughout the human species itself, through literally by just researching someone else's presentation of what someone else looks like.
we know what the value of this technology is for mathematical applications.
it's worth getting the revenue for billions of dollars a year.
but what value does this technology have in a classroom trying to show an object, how much damage it has been done from a health perspective
what is the value of this technology to be able to read or to russian or to try to show the world, how does it live under action
what is the value of this technology to our country, to our parents, to our parents, to our children, to try to inspire a generation of children to think more in space and science than the quarter of our winter report and our church
ladies and gentlemen, the <UNK> reality.
the questions we ask, the dollars and dollars we do, the challenges we face, as usual, come back to us.
thank you.
they recently went out of california's street drill after 23 years.
most of that time i was in south county county martin county, which includes the bridge of the golden gate.
the bridge is a creative building, known as the world's aesthetic <UNK>, and the pacific ocean, and inspired by inspiration.
unfortunately, it's also a factor of suicide suicide, where after the most part of the world, they try to commit suicide.
the golden gate opened in in fact in.
joseph
suicide on the bridge is not practical, and it's not possible. "
but as we opened more than 47 people and a <UNK> to the bridge.
some think that traveling between your neck of the bridge will lead to another, this bridge has the idea of your heart and its heart and it will free you from your own heat, and the water at the bottom will fill you with your soul.
but let me tell you what actually happens when we use the bridge to suicide.
after a heat fall, four or five seconds, the body hits the water at a rate of 75 miles an hour.
that shock of bone disorder, which is burning after that biological organ.
many die of crash impact.
those who don't die are generally aware of their own power and not power, and then you know.
i don't think religion has chosen this way in suicide, they understand how awful death is that way.
this is our signature.
except for the launch on the ground, there are 32 inches of iron balance for the bridge.
here we stand most of these people before they kill themselves.
and from my experience i can tell you that if the person gets to that table, for the moment of his life, it's very difficult to bring it back.
i took this picture last year of a past while this young woman was talking to the officer who was looking after her life.
and i can tell you that we've been successful that day, that we've been able to get rid of the fence.
when i started working on the bridge, i was not trained.
we were struggling to meet these calls.
it wasn't just bad for people trying to commit suicide, but also for their own sake.
it's been a long way since then.
now, the old officers and the psychologists train the new officers.
this is craig <UNK>.
i met dave at 22 last year when she received a call in case she was trying to get suicide sitting on her feet in the middle of the bridge.
i responded, and when i arrived, i watched craig speak with the bridge officer.
he was 32 years old, and he came on a plane from new jersey.
in fact, he came here twice before this time from new jersey to try to commit suicide on this bridge.
about an hour after talking to craig, he asked if we knew the story of the do of the city of do.
if you remember in greek myth, <UNK> created, send it to the floor with a box, and then tell her, "don't ever open the box."
but one day, a classroom could be separated from do, and he wanted to open the box.
i was moved by the office as a journalist, and all sorts of evil against humans.
the only news in that box was hope.
and then craig <UNK> said, "what would happen if the box opened and there was no hope"
silence for a moment, and it has a precious influence, and then a man.
this guy is crazy, smart from new jersey, just older than suicide.
i talked to craig that night, and i think as i talk to her, i didn't look like i'd worked all because, on the following day, my family call was going to have to be.
they came up with craig <UNK> they asked him to do that.
the unexpected damage of suicide affected by many people.
i'll ask you this question: what would you do if somebody had a pair of people who loved to be suicide
what would you say
how would you know what you're going to say
as my experience, it's not just talking but by watching.
listen to understanding.
we don't argue, we don't blame, we don't tell that person you feel, because you probably don't feel.
just to get you there, it could be the turning point you need.
if someone feels like suicide, don't fear being heard and ask about it.
one way to ask this question is this: "other people in similar circumstances think about ending their lives; did you think of them
the face of a person who is directly saving his life and is a turning point for him.
some other signals that you can see: people, believe that life is terrifying and it's never going to get better; disability, belief that there is nothing we can do about it; we're going to drop out of social life; and loss of desire in life.
i had this talk a few days ago, when i got an email from a woman i wanted to read.
she lost her son on 19 this year, and i gave this mail just a few days ago, and after she got up and i read her i'm going to read you.
"hi, kevin." i expect you're at ted now.
there must be a wonderful experience.
i think i should be on the bridge the weekend.
so i wanted to leave you with a note.
and i was told to connect my word to people and to their neighbors and to tell their friends who told their sisters, etc.
i still miss a little bit of feeling, but i actually started to realize those moments that mike's not going to come home.
mike was driving his car from <UNK> to san francisco to watch the san francisco team game with his 19 father from january.
but it didn't go forever.
i called my wife and i would hide him out of his mouth that night.
and the next morning, my father came to my house and told me that mike's car was standing near the bridge.
and he noticed that he saw that by showing that he jumped from the bridge at 1: 58 o'clock last night.
thank you so much for supporting those who were just for a very temporary period of being very vulnerable and engaged themselves.
who of us didn't feel vulnerable even without myself
it's very difficult to space on.
i ask you for your own question.
the golden gate bridge, it was supposed to be the invisible of its beautiful structure, not a grave.
i thank you very much this week, and i bet. "
i can't imagine my courage to walk over the bridge and walk on the road that she has taken away from her son that day, and only her passion for continuing to live.
i want to introduce you to a man who is my description of hope and courage.
on march 11, 2005, i responded to a radio appeal to the radio as likely to be tried to commit suicide on the <UNK> hallway near the north tower.
and i led my bike on the pedestrian tracks and i noticed that man, kevin <UNK>, standing on the road street.
when i saw him, he chose directly the pedestrian barrier, and he stood on that little tube that would roll over the tower.
and for the next hour and a half, kevin listened to me, and he talked about his two <UNK>.
kevin decided that day that he was going to come back to that barrier and give his life another chance.
when kevin came back, i was fascinated.
"this is a new beginning, this is a new life."
but i asked him, "what was it that made you come back and give life and hope for another chance"
you know what he told me
he said, "you listen to me.
and i close with my talk, and i just listen to me. "
shortly after the incident, i received a letter from kevin's mother, and here's the message with me now, and i'd like to read it to you.
"dear mr. <UNK>, nothing happened at 11 o'clock in march, but you've taken the reasons that kevin's survival now.
and i was absolutely surprised that kevin was a <UNK>.
he's been diagnosed with myself from now on a regular basis.
kevin's been hired when he was six months old, and i didn't know at all about the spiritual background, but thank god, we know that now.
kevin <UNK> says.
we really stand god for being.
and the city will come for you, and i'll give you your money. "
and at the bottom of the message i wrote, "an dilemma, when i visited san francisco's public hospital that night, they had written your name on you.
i really wanted to correct that mistake. "
today, kevin became a professional and active organ in society.
we're frankly talking about making that day and being honest that it's a cause of other people's inspiration.
suicide is not just something that i've experienced during my work.
it's a personal thing.
my grandfather had the oldest suicide of himself.
even though that act is over to the end of its own book, it's got a chance to recognize it.
that's what suicide does.
most of our parents, or people who think suicide, don't want to hurt another person.
they just want to finish the special importance.
usually, it's done in three ways: sleep, drugs, alcohol or death.
during my work, i responded and served hundreds of calls to try to suicide and mental illness around the bridge.
and those accidents that i was in were the direct responsible in have only two conditions, but many of them are very different.
and they showed him, craig, it was craig.
and the guy was a man who spoke to him about an hour.
and as i talk to him, hold my hand three times.
so from that last, he looked at me, and he said, "kevin, i'm sorry, but i have to go."
he jumps over and says, "i'm not."
terrifying, completely awful.
i want to tell you too, the vast majority of people we meet on that bridge do not provide suicide.
in addition, those few who are willing to jump out of the bridge and have lived on their experience, that one or two percent, most said that, at that moment, they chose that barrier knew they had committed luck and wanted to live again.
what i'm saying to people is that the bridge doesn't only reach martin about san francisco, but it also gets people together.
that connection, or the bridge that i'm going to call, is something that each of us should fight for.
suicide can be managed.
there's help, there's hope.
thank you very much.
the world makes you become something different from what you are, but, in you, you know who you are, and that question is burning in you: how do you become
i may be a fan of that, but i'm not a fan, i'm not an expert at all.
so when i became a fashion model, i finally felt like i'd had the dream that i'd been dreaming about since i was a child.
my external personality is associated with my inner truth with my self.
for many complex reasons, i'll come to her later, when i look at this picture, then, i felt i'd done that. i got that. i got up.
but last october, i realized that i was only at first.
and we put inside boxes by their own people, because of religion, because of society, because of moments of history, even in our bodies.
some people have the courage to break that, and not accept the limits that are required because of their skin color or because of beliefs around them.
these people are a constant threat to the status quo, for what we are now considered more than two.
in my case, over the last nine years, some of my neighbors and colleagues and i and even our friends, didn't know what history was.
i think, in a mysterious way, this is what's called <UNK>.
and this is secret.
i've been recorded at birth as a boy based on the outside of her own present form.
i remember when i was five years old in the philippines, and i was walking around the house, i always put a shirt on my head.
and my mother was asking me, "how can you wear that shirt on your head all the time"
i was like, "mama, that's my hair, i'm a girl."
i knew then how to define autonomy.
sex, it was still absolute, totally <UNK> but now we know it's much more flexible, it's more flexible.
because of my success, i had no courage to share my story, not because i think i'm wrong, but because of how the world is treating us, which we hope to live an experience.
every day, i'm so grateful that i'm a woman.
i have a mother and a family who really accepted me as i would like to be.
many are not that lucky.
there's usually an old habit in asian culture that disappears in a mystery of sex.
there are gods that are doing compassion.
there's the gods of the gods, the god of migration.
and that's when i was eight, i was in a celebration in the philippines with those secrets.
i was at the front of the theater, and i remember, this beautiful lady in front of me, and i remember that moment something inside of me saying, this is what i want to share.
so when i was 15, i still wasn't a boy, i met a lady named "<UNK>."
she was the boss of an atheist's audience.
that night she asked me, "how did you not bring me to beauty shows"
i thought if i wanted to do that, i would do it with recording cards and clothes, and that night, i'd won the swimming clothes and better in the long <UNK> and i took the second center in the competition between 40 and 40.
that moment changed my life.
and all of a sudden, i was introduced to the beauty of the world.
and it's not to be the first career to be the queen of beauty, but i'm going to give you a chance.
so from 15 to 17 years i shared most of those posters, until i was involved in a competition that was played in a diameter truck, literally, or again, a competition that was held next to a rice transplant, and when it rains, and in the philippines it was so big -- it had to go into the competition inside one of
i've been dealing with strangers, especially when we travel to remote regions in the philippines.
but, more importantly, i met some of my best friends of that community.
in 2001, my mother, who moved to san francisco, called me and said that he was approved to call the access to america, which meant by which i could move to america.
i had fought that.
i told my mother, "mama, i'm having fun.
here with my friends, i love traveling, and i give him the queen of beauty. "
but two weeks later, she called up and said, "you know, in america, you can change your name and your name"
that's all i needed to hear.
my mother also said to me, "i'm going to put a <UNK> in my name."
she also had me when i had a surgery operation in thailand in '19th year.
that's interestingly, where in some of the poorest cities in thailand, their performance is better and better and more safe in those surgeries.
at that time in the united states, you have to take surgery before you change the name and the military.
so, in 2001, i moved to san francisco, and i remember when i wanted to get a driver's license license in california, and my name was the sex proposal was "my son."
that was a powerful moment.
for some people, personal identity is leadership or even to get alcohol, for me, it was about being happy, to feel happy.
and suddenly, my fear began to be an alternative.
i felt i could achieve my dream and move to live in new york as a model.
many are not happy with luck.
i think it's because of this woman named <UNK> <UNK>.
she's from new york, and she's a young lady who was living her life as a spring, but hatred around her life.
and for the majority of my community, this is the reality of our lives.
our suicide rate is higher and higher than the average year.
in november 20, a global stop is destroyed by the day of the will.
i'm here on this stage thanks to a long history of those people who stand up and stand against injustice.
this is me at johnson and johnson and <UNK>.
today, this particular moment, this is a moment that i've been real.
i no longer can live in my true life for myself and my only place.
i'd like to give the best to help others to live their lives without shame or fear.
i'm here, naked, even one day, there will be no need for the 20 of november.
and my inner truth made me accept myself.
can you do that
thank you very much.
thank you very much. thank you very much. thank you: side, quick question.
i wonder what you would say, especially to parents, but more closely, friends, family, anyone who finds herself in the face of a child or someone who is facing or walking through an extraordinary position of sex that they've been defined by, what can you say to that person to help them become better, and kind of <UNK> for them
pm: well, right. first of all, i'm very lucky.
the support system, especially with my mother's support, and family, itself was very powerful.
i remember every moment i wanted to train a young, young woman, they went, or sometimes they called me and they asked me that their parents didn't kill that. i was raising the phone and calling my mother, "mama, can you talk to that woman"
sometimes it's a business challenge, and sometimes it doesn't work. but that's just the <UNK> of sex, right
i mean, we all have been born when we're born, and so what i'm trying to do is start that talk is sometimes our specific sex doesn't agree, and therefore there must be space that people can be <UNK>, and that conversation we should be fighting with parents, colleagues, colleagues.
the.
it's still too much to do.
there must be understanding.
there can be space to ask and ask questions, and i hope all of you will be my inventor.
jc: thank you very much. that was great. alongside: thank you.
in many, like, "good," we know parents are usually like their children, but i'm one of the few who know their <UNK> and i'm proud of this thing.
she started her campaign for education and defense for her rights, in 2007, and when she was forced to do her efforts in 2011, she became very famous for her country.
before all of that, my daughter was, but now, i'm her father.
ladies and gentlemen, if we look at human history, women's story is a story of unfair, inequality, violence and abuse.
you see, in the "bad communities," from the beginning, when a house is born, birth is not celebrated.
she's not mixed up, whether she's her mother or her son.
neighbors come with mother's friends, they don't make machines.
mother is not very comfortable and comfortable with a home.
when the first girl is born, the first daughter, is very sad.
when the next daughter is born, the mother will be born, and when it's expected to generate a male son, but a third girl is born, mother feels guilty as a bribe.
not only is she suffering, but also a girl, a new girl, a young girl, when she grows up, she is also suffering.
at five, when she has to be in school, she's still the girl at home while her male brothers go to school.
and even 12 years old, in a way, lives a good life.
we can joke.
you can play with her friends in the streets, and go on the streets like the star.
but when you become a teenager, when you enter your 13 years old, you're worried to leave the house without facilities.
it's covered in four walls.
she's not a person that is free anymore.
it becomes what's called the privilege of her son, her family and her family, and if she ate the limits of that honor, she might be killed.
interestingly, the honor code for a meal has not only affect the life of the girl, but also affecting the lives of the males in her family.
i know a family of seven sisters and one brother, and that one brother, who went to the gulf, to earn the living for his seven and his mother, because he thinks he's going to be a mother if i teach her seven skills to live and to become a living.
this brother, healthy, stayed his life and had his sisters for what's called the privilege of him.
and there's a lot more in the "<UNK>" societies.
"good girl" should be very quiet and very quiet and very honest.
that's the standard.
the good girl should be very quiet and have it very quiet.
it should be silent and to accept her father's decisions, and her older than her, even if she didn't like her.
if she's married to a man who doesn't like her or a old man, she has to kill her, because she doesn't want to look at her as a printing press.
if you married at a very young age, you have to accept that.
otherwise you would have created a printing press.
and what happens in the end
in a word in a word, it's a fake, it's put in bed and then it's going to give you more kids and girls.
and the irony of the situation is that this mother, he will know the same lesson as the <UNK> and the <UNK> and the same lesson of the honor of his country.
and this ring goes on and goes on.
ladies and gentlemen, millions of women can be asked if we think differently, if we think about women and men in a different way, if women and men in the communities of india are careful in the developed countries, if they can bring some family habits and community habits, if they can remove the laws of race in their countries, which are
she's our brothers and sisters, when i was born to our brothers, and for the first time, believe me, i don't like the new babies, i'll be honest with you, but when i look in her eyes and believe me, i've got a great honor.
and before he was born long, i thought his name was, and i was fascinated by a hero of honor in afghanistan.
her name was <UNK> from <UNK>, named my daughter named after her.
a few days after i was born and born, my daughter came to my son -- my father was a coincidence -- that i came home and brought the family tree, the family tree, looked at the tree, and i saw that it was tracking the history of 300 years of our ancestors.
but they were all men, and i picked up my film, i added a line to my movie, and i wrote, "<UNK>."
and as i grew up, she became four and a half years old, and she was in my school.
now, you might ask, why do i remember being a teacher at school
i have to mention this.
this may be a very important concept for canada, in america, in many developed countries, but in poor countries, in the communities of women and ethnic communities, this thing is a very important thing to live in.
you go to school means you know what it's like and what it's called.
"acceptance in school means that she has entered the world of dreams and a world of democracy where she can detect the power of her future life."
i have five sisters, none of them could go into school, but you're surprised to be <UNK> it's two weeks, when i was hoping for a canadian bank, when i was hoping for the family part of the demand, i couldn't remember the last names of some of my sisters.
and the reason for that is that i've never seen a whole lot of my life written in a document.
that's why i got invited to the appreciate of my daughter.
the thing my dad couldn't afford to make any building, i thought i had to change it.
i've always been able to appreciate the intelligence i've had with my daughter.
i was surprised to sit with me when my friends would come.
i was surprised to go with me to many meetings.
and all of these medical values, which were to deliver in their personality.
she didn't just have it. she just gave her up.
all of these medical values have been transformed by my school students and girls both by men and girls.
i used education as a means of can download.
i learned two students, learned a couple of girls, not learning a lesson and a student.
my students learned from boys not to learn a lesson called the fake privilege of honor.
my brothers and sisters, we were trying to take extra rights for women and we were struggling to get more, more space for women in the community.
but we have a new phenomenon.
it was particularly human rights and particularly women's rights.
it was called "order."
it means full of shared share of women in all political, economic and social activity.
hundreds of schools try.
girls are tired of going to school.
and i chose women on the not a can and they didn't let them go to the market.
stop the musicians, the girls' sister and they kill me.
millions were suffering, but the few were the ones who talked, and the most beautiful things were to be surrounded by people like those who killed their rights, and to be talking about rights.
it was really the most exciting thing.
at the age of 10, i stood up and i stood up, and i stood up for education.
i wrote a note for a blog blog, and i was convicted for a documentary film, a new york times film that i spoke from every platform i could talk to.
and it was the most powerful voice.
it's spread out all over the world.
and that was why the taliban had their own movement, on october 9, 2012, and they caught it in their head in a very close distance.
this day was like the day of the president and my family.
the world turned into a big black hole.
when my daughter was living and dying, i thought to my wife, "is mother what happened to my daughter"
but it suddenly said, "please don't see you.
i stood on the right side.
you've put your life at stake in order to peace, for education, and you've inspired your daughter to come back and get you to you.
both of you were on the right, and god would protect them. "
these few words meant a lot to me, and i didn't ask that question again.
when she was a hospital, she was a big deal, she was very depressed, she was having a big migraine, because she had a lot of beer, and i was seeing her <UNK> like, "i'm going to get my wife's face."
but my daughter didn't miss a day.
she was telling us, "i'm fine with my <UNK> and my eyes and my eyes in my face.
i'll be okay, please don't worry. "
she was a <UNK>, and she <UNK> her.
my brothers and sisters taught us resilience on the most vulnerable, i'm glad to share my argument that even though it's the symbol of child rights and women, it's like any 16 girl.
she's crying when she doesn't keep up and give her home.
and i'm going to follow her brothers, and i'm very happy to do that.
people ask me, what is the special thing in my legacy that made it so bold and so brave that it made it speak and be parallel
and i said, "don't ask me what i did."
but ask me what i didn't do.
i didn't catch their wings; that's it.
thank you very much.
thank you. thank you very much. thank you.
i've had brain surgery since 10 years ago, brain surgery has become very good for me.
i'm actually an engineer.
at first, let me say i recently joined google's "google" group in google "and the surgery i'm going to talk about today is work before you join google and on the side before google.
well, it's said, there's a stigma in the brain.
are i still smart or not
and if the answer isn't, can you gain intelligence over again
after i had a part of the brain that i had to deal with that.
it wasn't part of the gray matter in the brain, but it was a dead part of the rubber material at the brain center that controls the hormone and the main neuron.
right after the surgery, i had to decide how much drugs i should take every day, and that if i could take away the material, i would die within hours.
every day, since 10 years, every single day i had to decide and the structure and the combination of chemicals, the chemistry, to survive.
and it was a lot of hard decisions.
but luckily, i was doing practice, and so, i decided to try to find the best oxygen required because there was no clear reference for that particular reference.
i started an experiment with the one i was just as shocked as how simple a material change happens to be a very, very <UNK> of my feelings of self, my thinking and my imagination towards others.
one of the exciting situations: for two months i actually did standard drugs that fit into a young man's 20s, and i was shocked how my ideas changed.
i was angry all the time, and i think sex is constantly, and also the smarter people i ever get, and also -- -- -- and of course, in years i met young people as well, or as a little bit less on board than that.
i was an extreme case.
but, what surprised me, i wasn't trying to be a fan.
i was actually trying to be, with some feeling of security, to solve a problem that i'm facing, but that didn't work.
so i couldn't possibly imagine that.
i changed the dose.
but, that experience, i think, gave me an estimate of men, and why they might have, and also a lot of their evidence for men has been better since.
what i was trying to do was make up the fusion of the neural hormones and the neural activity of my brain trying to restore my missing passion after the disease and my creativity, my creative ideas.
and often i think through images, even when it was very good for me to get these mental images that i use in initial models, if you will, in a way, an experiment of different ideas, different ideas, and other unknown.
this kind of thinking is not a definition.
philosophers like <UNK> and <UNK> and <UNK> have seen this similar.
they all thought that mental images and ideas were the same.
and there's a paradox that's now, and many arguments about the work of the mind, but for me it's simple: mental images, most of us are essential to creative thinking and creative thinking.
so a few years later, i went to balance myself and i had many living mental images with a very good level of intuition and analysis of a lot of that.
so i'm working on how do i get these pictures in my brain to a computer much faster
can you imagine, if you can, a embarrassing journalist that you can only use for a living in front of the world
or a musician who can get the music out of his brain
these are amazing possibilities for the peers and the peers of their ideas at the speed of light.
and the fact is, despite the obstacles to doing this is the expansion of the cognitive systems of the brain.
so let me give you a reason that i think we're kind of close with two two very best neurons.
both of them use mri and functional mri to film the brain, and this is a picture of the brain from <UNK> and his colleagues at harvard.
on the left pole, you show a brain image of somebody who's rain into a picture.
the middle pole shows the brain scan the same person's imagine, and you see the same picture.
the two on the right is a middle and a visual and a brain that shows that the difference is barely there.
and it's been done with many people, and with many different images, along with the same result always.
the difference between seeing a picture and imagining the same image, hardly there is no difference.
follow, let me go through the next experiment, which is the front of the <UNK> museum at the university of california.
they could then use the brain waves and turn them into a visual field that could perceive.
and let me give you that.
in this experiment, people were shown hundreds of hours of video clips from a site of brain activity to create a more specific library of brain action for groups of videos.
a new film was shown in which new images, new people, different animals, and then they were being analyzed again.
the computer, it uses only survey data and it will mimic that brain activity and show the actual picture of people watching.
on the right hand side, we see computer analysis, and on the left side, the real video.
the results are interesting and exciting.
we're so close to doing that.
we just need to improve accuracy.
now remember when you see a picture versus imagine the same picture, that gives the same brain survey.
and it was done with the best accuracy of the brain to actually scan the brain, and the accuracy of those parts have actually evolved thousands of times over the last few years.
so we need better resolution, a thousand times better, to get a deeper glimpse of it.
how do we do that
there are a lot of techniques to it.
one is, the skull breaks and it's creating electrodes directly.
i'm not in favor.
there are many imaging techniques that have been collected, some of them have been given to their own, but based on current mri, first of all, we need to ask, is this the end of the way for this technology
conventional wisdom says that the unit means to get more accurate is more expensive, but only by the size of the two times more expensive, it provides some extra improvements in a certain sense, and not more improvement than a thousand times as much as we want.
i'll give you a little bit more idea, to make better magnet.
there are many techniques that are being applied in nanotechnology when it's applied in the magnet industries, it's a new category of worms, and in that technology, we can get very detailed patterns and clear to the magnetic space in all parts of the brain, and by doing so, we can get <UNK> and <UNK> and <UNK> them into multiple patterns
we can create more sophisticated structures by making a very simple balance, sort of like breathing and breathing.
so why is this important
many efforts for mri in years have been moving to the industry to scale up, very large sizes, right
and yet many improvements in the resolution of imaging are really smart, creative solutions to analysis in chemical frequencies that are used to be used in mri systems.
also, instead of a single magnet that uses a specific magnet that also uses an pattern waves as well as an optical waves.
so, combine the magnet patterns with the radio waves of an instrument that can dramatically increase the information that we can extract from one scan.
and in addition to that, we can describe all of what we've learned about brain structure and memory to get improvement by a thousand times what we need.
and with the functional mri technology, we can measure not only blood flow and hormone hormones that are happening about it at first and also perhaps direct neural activity, which is the dream.
a market that can bring our ideas and our ideas into digital media.
can you imagine that we could go beyond language and communicate directly with human ideas
what can we do then
and also how can we learn to deal with the features of human ideas that are not being generated
we think the internet is big.
there are huge questions.
it could be an irrational way of protecting our ideas and our communication skills.
and i actually, this same tool can lead to a cure for alzheimer's disease and similar diseases.
we have enough tests to open the door.
no matter what, tell a year is that going to happen in 15 years
it's hard to imagine that it's going to take longer.
we need to learn how to do this step together.
thank you very much.
i'm going to talk to you tonight about coming out, not as used to hear, not about sexual abuse.
i think we all have secrets.
now, you may be told to someone you love for the first time, or tell someone you're pregnant, or tell someone you're having cancer, or you start any other difficult conversation that you've ever been through in your lifetime.
every talk about the secret, it's a difficult talk, and although our parents may be so different, but the experience of living and freedom from freedom is a global experience.
it's scary and scary, but it has to be done.
some years ago, i was working in south south south south south city cafe, a local restaurant in the city, and while i was working, i was going through a very serious struggle for her girl: i was fascinated by a quote from the "father de <UNK> <UNK>."
and depending on my <UNK> pants and my short <UNK> and how recently i've created my head, the question often has spread from me, usually by a little kid: "are you a boy or a girl"
and there would be a embarrassing silence on the table.
my wrist pulled me a little bit more by me, holding the coffee vessel and holding me a little bit more.
the father is moving the paper and <UNK> and the mother is calling her eyes to her baby, and her sister is crying.
but i don't say anything, and i stay stuck inside.
i got to a point where every time i walk to a table where a child is three and 10 years old, i was ready to fight.
and that's a terrible feeling.
so i promised myself, next time i would say something.
and i'm going to go into that hard competition.
so, within weeks, that happened again.
"are you a boy or a girl"
silence is familiar, but this time i'm ready, and i'm about to throw all the women's studies at this table, i have a quote to build a film of mine.
i have a quote like a "star."
i have a few <UNK> clips of <UNK> and <UNK>.
so i took a deep breath and i looked down at my face and i looked at my face as a four year-old girl in pink, and it's not a challenge for the feminist, just a kid who has a question: "are you a boy or a girl"
so i took another breath, sat down next to it, and i said, "hey, i know it's kind of embarrassing.
my hair was a little hair like a boy, and i was wearing a boy's clothes, but i'm a girl, and you know how sometimes you want to wear pink, and sometimes you want to wear your own clothes today
well, i'm the kind of girl who's been <UNK> in comfortable clothes. "
and she looked at the girl carefully, and no difficulty was waiting, and she said, "my favorite day is the ultraviolet with the fish.
can i get a pie, please "
and so it was, just, "oh, well, you're a girl.
how about that <UNK> "
it was the easiest difficult conversation i ever had.
and why because the <UNK> girl and i, we were both real with each other.
so like many of us, i lived inside a couple of tanks in my life, and yes, most of the time, i happened to be a rainbow.
but inside, in the dark, we can't say what color these walls are.
i just knew what i felt like to live inside a closet.
so really, i'm just not making my clothes different from you or you.
of course, i'm going to give you 100 cents why my experience was harder than your experiences, but here's where the shark gets better: a hard word is not relatively bad.
difficulty is hard.
who can tell me to explain to someone that you announced your prize is harder than telling someone you just made your choice
who can tell me that your story is harder than telling your child five years old you're going to get divorce
there's nothing harder, it's just hard.
we need to stop our problems with other problems in order to reduce ourselves or want the burden of our problems and to raise the truth that we're all suffering from trouble.
at some point in our lives, we all live inside a toilet, which may feel safe, or at least safer than we stand behind that door.
but i'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter from anything made to the office, the closet is not a place to live a human being.
thank you. so imagine yourself 20 years ago.
for me, i had a little on a horse and a horse phone, and i took a shoe and i had a high.
i wasn't very compassionate because i was so engaged with any four child coming to the cafe.
i was frozen from fear, and i was sitting at the dark, dark corner holding the prison bomb, and the foot on any movement was the most beautiful thing i ever did.
my family and friends and friends and i spent my life trying to avoid and not avoid her belief, but now i'm turning things upside down in there.
i was so fascinated by the pages of the scenario that i've always had for a long time and so on, so if you don't get away with that bomb, it's going to spend on you.
one of the biggest living memories that i had had had was at my sister's marriage party.
that was the first time i was so large that you knew i was gay, and as i did the sense of resilience, in tony's black and high school, i was walking around the tables and then my parents stopped sitting on it as friends that i was, people i knew two years ago.
shortly after, one woman reported, "i love craig venter!"
and then i started a war with the sexual discrimination.
"could you get me to do it by
"well, yes, actually, we have friends in san francisco."
"well, we've never been there before, but we've heard it's amazing."
"hey, do you know else," and that's my hair's hair
he's really a good guy and he never talked about his girlfriend. "
"what is your favorite tv program"
our favorite program favorite: will will be called the <UNK>.
and do you know who to love jack.
jack is our favorite. "
and then one woman, he was confused, but she wanted to show up to her support, and i think she stood in my class, and she said it, and she said it out of thinking, "well, sometimes my husband is wearing pink pants."
and i had a choice at that moment, given that everybody was throwing up their teeth.
i can go back to my friend and to the really hard table and make it into my own, and i can hold it to my own love by jumping through the sexual waves that brought me, or i can listen to them and see that maybe it was one of the hardest things they did, that starting to go through that debate was going
obviously, it was so easy to point out its own feeling of <UNK>.
they're much more difficult to stand, and recognize the fact that they were trying to.
and what can someone show up to it not trying
if you're meant to be honest with someone, you must be ready for your attention.
so the serious conversations are still not my strength point.
ask anyone and food.
but i'm getting better, and i follow what i like to call the three principles of the girl.
now, please look at this through a perspective like me, but do you know what it takes to come out basically is the same thing.
number one: be a fan.
take the <UNK> be yourself.
the kid at the cafe was not carrying two guards, but i was ready for a fight.
if you want somebody to be honest with you, it needs to know that you're not.
number two: be <UNK> just break it out. it breaks down the barriers.
if you're gay, i admit it.
if you told your mother that maybe you could be a fan, they would have hope that that would change.
we don't give them that sense of false sentences.
number three, and most importantly -- don't apologize.
you're telling your instructions.
we don't apologize for that at all.
some people can be calling up along the way, so, i apologize for your own <UNK>, but never apologize for your truth.
indeed, some people might believe me in you, but that's your own, not your own.
these are your own expectations around you, not your expectations.
that's their story, not your story.
the only story that really matters is what you want to write.
so next time you find yourself in the closet with the gay <UNK> of your mouth, i know we've all been through it before.
and you might feel very alone, but you're not.
and we know that's hard, but we need you here, no matter what walls are made, because i guarantee you there are others staring at the keys and looking at the courage to open the door, so be that person and show the world that we are more than our arms and that the closet is not so miserable to live someone.
thank you, for the may, for the <UNK> enjoy the <UNK>.
intelligence -- what is it
if we look at the evolution of perspective into intelligence, one of the first examples was the famous quote by the <UNK> of the man who said this: "the question of whether a machine can think quite interesting about whether a trailer can swim."
now, as a teacher, when i was doing this, he meant his definition of computer scientists, like now <UNK>.
but, if you look back and think about what is the most innovative project that's made us be able to build an industrial father swimming and an industrial father flying, you can only find that by understanding the physical mechanisms of swimming and flying, we've been able to build these machines.
and so, a few years ago, i started a program to try to understand the basic physical mechanisms that are intelligence.
let's take a step back.
let's first start with an idea experiment.
imagine you're an alien who doesn't know anything about biology on earth or neuroscience on earth or intelligence on earth, but you have wonderful telescopes that you can see the earth, and you have a very long life, so you can see the earth over millions, but billions of years.
and i saw a really weird effect.
i saw, during my dive, that the earth was being beaten and beaten to an point, and this at some point, is almost a <UNK>, 2,000 after christmas, that the asteroids that hit the earth were supposed to be buried in some mysterious way were being buried or buried before they were gone off the ground.
now of course, as the earth gets better, we know why we might be trying to protect ourselves.
we're trying to prevent the crash.
but if you're an alien who doesn't know any of this, and doesn't have any concept of global intelligence, you're trained to create a physical theory that explains how, even a certain point in time, the asteroids that destroy the surface of a planet have stopped by doing that.
so i'm saying that this is the same question of understanding physical nature of intelligence.
so in this program that i've been looking at a few years ago, i looked at a variety of topics in science, and in many areas, which have been going, i think, into an open, autonomous mechanism of intelligence.
in cosmology, for example, there have been many different topics that tell us that our universe seems to be organized in a very accurate way to develop intelligence, and especially, to develop the cosmic conditions that we want to rise to the greater diversity of future time.
in games, for example, in the hello game -- everybody remember in 1997 when the deep deep blue pyramid that i made, which was john actually, and a few people realize that in the last 10 years, in the game of hello, it's said a much more challenging game because it has a much more play, too, and so
these are technologies that try to increase future choices as much as possible during play.
ultimately, in the motor motor planning, there are many new technologies that are trying to use the ability of robots to increase the freedom of future behavior into the ultimate boundaries of a complex task.
and so, we take all these topics and we combine them with some, i wondered, a few years ago, is there an evolutionary technology of intelligence that we can bring out of all these different topics
is there a single equation for intelligence
and the answer, i think, is yeah. [t c & amp; t] that you see is probably the closest flying to e de d de get seen in my life.
so what you see here is a statement that intelligence is news, b, that is working on increasing freedom of future behavior.
it's working on increasing the freedom of future behavior to the highest boundaries, or keeping choices available, using some t power, with possible future times, an organization, even the future time landscape, now.
in short, intelligence doesn't have to be a fan.
intelligence needs to be willing to act beyond future behavior to the far borders and keep the choices open.
and so, having this only equation, it's natural to ask, so what can we do with this
how much variation is it
are we built by human intelligence
are we built artificial intelligence
so i'm going to show you a video now that, i think, will show you some of the wonderful applications of this only equation.
narrator: modern research suggested that universes that produce more chaos, or more "the need" the most intelligent "in their life have to represent the conditions of having intelligent and intelligent beings.
but what if this temporary cosmic relationship between the really brilliant and brilliant intelligence suggests a deeper relationship
what if behavior and behavior doesn't just relate to the long-term production of it, but actually it's coming directly out of it
to discover that, we developed a software engine called <UNK>, designed to produce long-term manufacturing for any system that he finds himself.
amazingly, my parents could have been able to succeed in multiple animal intelligence tests, in playing human games, and even in the money to get the stock, all without giving them instructions to do that.
these are some examples of the actual evidence.
just as a human standing straight without being, here we see a stick mechanism in a stick mechanism using a cart.
this behavior is particularly extraordinary because we never give a goal.
he decided by himself to balance the stick.
this capacity to balance will have applications for human robots and technology for human assistance.
just as animals use things as tools to reach the narrow spaces, here we see the two individual spaces, again, able to move large opportunities that represent an animal to another place to make small opportunities, to make a tool, to reach a small space where there are three opportunities and three opportunities from where the original position is.
this tool uses the ability to have applications in industry and smart agriculture.
also, just as some other animals can cooperate to pull the end of the mountain at the same time to release food, here we see that our own ability to make a typical version of that task.
this ability to cooperate interesting applications for economic planning and many other fields.
my colleagues have massive applications in many areas.
for example, here we see successfully playing a <UNK> game, which shows its ability to play.
here we see new communication systems on a social network where there is constantly contact with friends and successfully keeping good contact with the network.
this ability to mimic the networks of also applications in healthcare, energy, intelligence.
here we see the <UNK> running the tracks of the ships, discovering successfully and using the
using the same model, it has a wide use of the problems in defense, in the care of the care, the health and the mobility services.
finally, we're seeing here a <UNK> discovering in some ways and save a cheap buy plan, selling a high price in the financial paper market in the reality, and increasing the property that they're running successfully off i'm making.
this ability to organize risk will have massive applications in the economy and insurance.
alex <UNK>: so what you've just seen is that a set of intelligent intelligence people like tools and walking straight through and social cooperation are all following one equation, which is a system that has created a system to increase their war in the future's behavior to the far boundaries.
now, there's a deep magic here.
going back to the beginning there was always this notion that if we developed robotic intelligence, there would be a mechanical revolution.
they will answer the mechanisms against us.
one of the big consequences of this work is that perhaps all these decades, we had the reverse concept of the mechanism.
it's not that machines are becoming smart at first and they're having this incredible, crazy, trying to control the world.
it's exactly the opposite, that the tendency to control all of the future times is more fundamental than the principle of intelligence, that the aspects of public intelligence can actually be sent directly from control, rather than the other way around.
another important thing is to look for purpose.
i asked them often, how can you explain the ability to look for goals in this frame
and the answer is, the ability to look for goals can be immediately explained by this: as changed through a tunnel, a bottle of future space, to achieve many other goals later, or as we invest in financial selection, with a little bit of <UNK> in the short term to increase your wealth in the long term, the search for the
a long-term motivation for increasing freedom of future behavior.
and finally, richard feynman, a known physicist, once wrote that if the destruction of human civilization were destroyed, i could only give them one principle to help them rebuild civilization, that principle should be that all matter around us must be made of little elements that happen when we move away from each other, but when we get closer together.
so my version of this quote is to give our grandchildren to help them build the aspects of artificial intelligence or to help them understand human intelligence, which is this: intelligence has to look at it as a physical process that tries to want the freedom of future behavior to be at the extreme borders and avoid constraints in their future.
thank you very much.